[2021-09-21T19:58:29.219Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	present+
[2021-09-21T19:59:42.021Z]	<Mahmoud>	present+
[2021-09-21T19:59:44.326Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	present+
[2021-09-21T19:59:47.776Z]	<Eric_Schuh>	present+
[2021-09-21T20:00:08.527Z]	<Joe_Andrieu>	present+
[2021-09-21T20:00:09.953Z]	<mprorock>	present+
[2021-09-21T20:00:18.557Z]	<Justin_Richer>	present+
[2021-09-21T20:00:56.504Z]	<Orie>	present+
[2021-09-21T20:01:50.585Z]	<David_Chadwick>	present+
[2021-09-21T20:02:00.190Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	scribe+
[2021-09-21T20:02:12.897Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	present+
[2021-09-21T20:02:39.561Z]	<DavidC>	present+
[2021-09-21T20:03:00.205Z]	<Brent>	present+
[2021-09-21T20:04:12.825Z]	<Brian_Richter>	present+
[2021-09-21T20:04:15.337Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	Agenda: https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-credentials/2021Sep/0106.html
[2021-09-21T20:04:17.892Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	Chair: Manu
[2021-09-21T20:04:18.523Z]	<Adrian_Gropper>	present+
[2021-09-21T20:04:44.844Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	Manu: agenda review
[2021-09-21T20:04:51.910Z]	<Orie>	q+
[2021-09-21T20:04:52.215Z]	<agropper>	present+
[2021-09-21T20:04:54.037Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	... lots of PRs to review
[2021-09-21T20:05:22.818Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	ack Orie
[2021-09-21T20:05:38.402Z]	<Joe_Andrieu>	q+ to mention the sequence diagram work
[2021-09-21T20:05:46.011Z]	<Mahmoud>	+1
[2021-09-21T20:05:49.262Z]	<mprorock>	+1
[2021-09-21T20:05:52.910Z]	<Joe_Andrieu>	+1
[2021-09-21T20:05:56.765Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	orie: call times for PRs is fine, but could we come up with a codeowner independent merge consensus?
[2021-09-21T20:06:13.783Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	... async work mode would be helpful
[2021-09-21T20:06:25.314Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	manu: SGTM, lots of +1s in chat
[2021-09-21T20:06:27.173Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	+1
[2021-09-21T20:06:49.262Z]	<mprorock>	Whoo hoo!!!! thanks Joe
[2021-09-21T20:06:58.904Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	jandrieu: Mike Proroclk and Orie Steele have worked with me and Eric to map out the flow of that use-case in more detail
[2021-09-21T20:07:15.858Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	... the mapping exercise teased out some edits to the usecase and it's really helpful
[2021-09-21T20:07:20.677Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	... to the editorial process
[2021-09-21T20:07:39.976Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	... I will add that URL to the minutes shortly
[2021-09-21T20:07:42.003Z]	<mprorock>	https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-credentials/2021Sep/0109.html
[2021-09-21T20:07:47.989Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	Manu: Intros and Reintros
[2021-09-21T20:08:17.893Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	present+
[2021-09-21T20:08:30.677Z]	<Joe_Andrieu>	the sequence diagram email in the archives: https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-credentials/2021Sep/0109.html
[2021-09-21T20:08:03.125Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	Topic: Introductions and Reintroductions
[2021-09-21T20:08:45.663Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	Kerri Lemoie: Co-chairing VC-EDU and schedule just allowed me to attend these this week! Excited to be here
[2021-09-21T20:08:45.663Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	manu: For those of you that don't know Kerri, she is awesome.
[2021-09-21T20:08:49.244Z]	<Joe_Andrieu>	Hi Kerri!
[2021-09-21T20:08:49.449Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	+1 to awesomeness
[2021-09-21T20:08:50.009Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	Thanks Manu :)
[2021-09-21T20:09:07.572Z]	<Orie>	Q=
[2021-09-21T20:09:08.841Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	Topic: Merge Windows
[2021-09-21T20:09:09.511Z]	<Orie>	q+
[2021-09-21T20:09:14.788Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	ack Joe
[2021-09-21T20:09:49.993Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	Orie: Since this isn't a formal WG, we should leverage that freedom and work faster, particularly since working fast increases chances of this going standards track later
[2021-09-21T20:10:12.802Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	... aiming for faster PRs, more frequent PRs, and operate under the "UNSTABLE COMMUNITY DRAFT" banner
[2021-09-21T20:10:58.158Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	... merging major changes with positive feedback and 1 or 2 reviews could be merged on day 7 without discussion on call, and minor PRs even faster, is a policy i would support
[2021-09-21T20:11:20.554Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	... I would recommend no PR stay open over a week if there are no changes requested by 2+ reviewers
[2021-09-21T20:11:43.761Z]	<Dmitri_Z>	present+
[2021-09-21T20:11:53.234Z]	<Orie>	yes
[2021-09-21T20:11:58.474Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	Manu: To clarify, editorial and non-substantive at discretion of editors, for substantive feedback, leave open for 7 or longer if it takes longer to resolve change requests
[2021-09-21T20:12:44.096Z]	<Orie>	PROPOSAL 1: Any editorial PR can be merged as soon as 2 code owners approve the PR.
[2021-09-21T20:13:20.332Z]	<Orie>	PROPOSAL 2: Any none editorial PR can be merged as soon as 2 code owners approve the PR, and its been open without change request for a minimum of 7 days.
[2021-09-21T20:13:16.972Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	PROPOSAL: Any editorial PR can be merged as soon as 2 code owners approve the PR.
[2021-09-21T20:13:18.890Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	+1
[2021-09-21T20:13:24.628Z]	<Joe_Andrieu>	+1
[2021-09-21T20:13:26.724Z]	<Orie>	+1
[2021-09-21T20:13:27.186Z]	<mprorock>	+1
[2021-09-21T20:13:28.177Z]	<Mahmoud>	+1
[2021-09-21T20:13:29.097Z]	<agropper>	+1
[2021-09-21T20:13:32.548Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	+1
[2021-09-21T20:14:08.173Z]	<manu>	RESOLVED: Any editorial PR can be merged as soon as 2 code owners approve the PR.
[2021-09-21T20:14:19.910Z]	<manu>	PROPOSAL: Any none editorial PR can be merged as soon as 2 code owners approve the PR, and its been open without change request for a minimum of 7 days.
[2021-09-21T20:14:31.829Z]	<brent>	q+
[2021-09-21T20:14:36.240Z]	<Orie>	q-
[2021-09-21T20:14:40.873Z]	<Dmitri_Zagidulin>	present+
[2021-09-21T20:15:08.512Z]	<Mahmoud>	q+
[2021-09-21T20:15:09.841Z]	<Orie>	q+
[2021-09-21T20:15:24.338Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	ack brent
[2021-09-21T20:15:39.274Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	ack Mahmoud
[2021-09-21T20:16:02.809Z]	<mprorock>	+1 lots of gaming on that kind of thing
[2021-09-21T20:16:17.003Z]	<Joe_Andrieu>	q+
[2021-09-21T20:16:30.861Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	Mahmoud: 7 days since last change req?
[2021-09-21T20:16:40.172Z]	<Orie>	YES
[2021-09-21T20:16:40.406Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	Manu: But that opens the door to a lot of gaming
[2021-09-21T20:17:05.833Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	ack Orie
[2021-09-21T20:17:14.508Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	Mahmoud: Would adding code owners req'd for approval help?
[2021-09-21T20:17:27.166Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	Orie: I don't think that helps, 2 will tag the 3rd if there's a problem
[2021-09-21T20:17:46.853Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	... and besides if our codeowners can't triage this many PRs in a timely manner we can get new ones
[2021-09-21T20:18:02.976Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	... and we should use change request feature in github to be very clear and direct
[2021-09-21T20:18:36.626Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	... even if the change request is "i will not support any form of this PR" (written into the CR window of the GH interface)
[2021-09-21T20:18:44.684Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	q+
[2021-09-21T20:18:48.984Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	ack Joe
[2021-09-21T20:19:14.718Z]	<Orie>	+1 to being early in the game... we should not be processing contributors to death...
[2021-09-21T20:19:15.670Z]	<mprorock>	+1 joe - it is also pretty easy to go put another PR in to adjust something as needed
[2021-09-21T20:19:17.925Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	jandrieu: I think we should remind ourselves we're in INCUBATION MODE and other processes in incubation mode work in google docs and very quickly
[2021-09-21T20:19:33.086Z]	<brent>	I think 7 days is fine, especially in view of the desired iterative process.
[2021-09-21T20:19:34.201Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	... so we shouldn't let the GH format put us into a very deliberative process autopilot
[2021-09-21T20:20:00.359Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	Manu: I sympathize with both sides of this, we can't be too cautious but there are reasons to be cautious even though we're at such an early stage
[2021-09-21T20:20:05.911Z]	<Mahmoud>	happy 2 or 3
[2021-09-21T20:20:31.049Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	... so we can go ahead with Brent's version, then, if Mahmoud is happy
[2021-09-21T20:20:52.084Z]	<manu>	PROPOSAL:  Any non-editorial PR can be merged as soon as 2 code owners approve the PR, if it has been open for a minimum of 7 days and change requests have been addressed.
[2021-09-21T20:20:56.034Z]	<Mahmoud>	+1
[2021-09-21T20:20:56.205Z]	<manu>	+1
[2021-09-21T20:20:56.862Z]	<brent>	+1
[2021-09-21T20:20:57.367Z]	<mprorock>	+1
[2021-09-21T20:20:57.622Z]	<Orie>	+1
[2021-09-21T20:21:00.371Z]	<agropper>	+1
[2021-09-21T20:21:05.107Z]	<Joe_Andrieu>	+1
[2021-09-21T20:21:10.707Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	+1
[2021-09-21T20:21:12.341Z]	<Dmitri_Zagidulin>	+1
[2021-09-21T20:21:20.788Z]	<Eric_Schuh>	+1
[2021-09-21T20:21:46.238Z]	<manu>	RESOLVED: Any non-editorial PR can be merged as soon as 2 code owners approve the PR, if it has been open for a minimum of 7 days and change requests have been addressed.
[2021-09-21T20:21:58.867Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	Manu: That work for you, Orie?
[2021-09-21T20:22:15.043Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	Orie: Yup, I might suggest we start using this immediately (like, the rest of this call)
[2021-09-21T20:22:31.220Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	Topic: Renaming VC HTTP API to VC API
[2021-09-21T20:22:44.382Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-credentials/2021Aug/0297.html
[2021-09-21T20:23:17.357Z]	<mprorock>	q+
[2021-09-21T20:23:22.635Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	ack Manu
[2021-09-21T20:23:25.540Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	ack mprorock
[2021-09-21T20:23:50.071Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	mprorock: You can't object to non-resolutions
[2021-09-21T20:23:56.460Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	+1 to what mike is saying from a chair perspective
[2021-09-21T20:24:06.779Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	...it was informative, so no action needs to be taken to the "formal" objection
[2021-09-21T20:24:32.445Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	Manu: Call for objections to renaming
[2021-09-21T20:24:34.913Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	no objections raised
[2021-09-21T20:24:55.396Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	PROPOSAL: Rename the VC HTTP API to become the VC API.
[2021-09-21T20:24:58.351Z]	<mprorock>	q+
[2021-09-21T20:24:59.622Z]	<Orie>	+1
[2021-09-21T20:24:59.688Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	Manu: <types proposal while reading it out loud>
[2021-09-21T20:25:01.983Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	+1
[2021-09-21T20:25:02.033Z]	<Mahmoud>	+1
[2021-09-21T20:25:02.647Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	+1
[2021-09-21T20:25:03.532Z]	<Joe_Andrieu>	+100
[2021-09-21T20:25:04.973Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	+1
[2021-09-21T20:25:05.212Z]	<mprorock>	+1
[2021-09-21T20:25:09.190Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	+1
[2021-09-21T20:25:11.208Z]	<agropper>	+1
[2021-09-21T20:25:12.916Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	Juan: I feel you, Joe
[2021-09-21T20:25:31.058Z]	<brent>	-0
[2021-09-21T20:25:39.627Z]	<Joe_Andrieu>	q+
[2021-09-21T20:25:45.535Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	ack mprorock
[2021-09-21T20:25:48.592Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	ack joe
[2021-09-21T20:26:02.079Z]	<mprorock>	lol
[2021-09-21T20:26:03.351Z]	<mprorock>	yes
[2021-09-21T20:26:08.988Z]	<Marty_Reed>	present+
[2021-09-21T20:26:09.204Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	HaH
[2021-09-21T20:26:14.359Z]	<manu>	RESOLVED: Rename the VC HTTP API to become the VC API.
[2021-09-21T20:26:17.303Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	jandrieu: Just want to remark a famous remark of Tim Berners-Lee that he would never have named it HTTP if he'd known people would be saying URLs out loud every day
[2021-09-21T20:26:26.135Z]	<Orie>	its cool, some browser vendors hide it anyway...
[2021-09-21T20:27:14.589Z]	<manu>	Just to clarify, the full name of the renamed specification should be "The Verifiable Credential API"
[2021-09-21T20:27:25.934Z]	<mprorock>	i insist on RPC /s
[2021-09-21T20:27:40.186Z]	<Justin_Richer>	did:vc:soap
[2021-09-21T20:27:47.875Z]	<Orie>	+1 to soap.
[2021-09-21T20:27:54.762Z]	<Justin_Richer>	why does : vc : turn into :vc: here??
[2021-09-21T20:27:56.929Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/vc-http-api/pull/224
[2021-09-21T20:28:22.105Z]	<Justin_Richer>	(jitsie has a flag, fwiw)
[2021-09-21T20:28:39.925Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	^ ðŸ‘€
[2021-09-21T20:28:47.878Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	topic: Pull Request 224 - Resolutions in Spec
[2021-09-21T20:29:07.469Z]	<mprorock>	+1 to closing
[2021-09-21T20:29:12.012Z]	<Orie>	please close confusing and outdated PRs.
[2021-09-21T20:29:16.846Z]	<Mahmoud>	close
[2021-09-21T20:29:17.225Z]	<Joe_Andrieu>	+1 to close
[2021-09-21T20:29:20.242Z]	<mprorock>	we can cherry pick good language out to use in other PRs
[2021-09-21T20:29:35.328Z]	<Orie>	9
[2021-09-21T20:30:22.028Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	Topic: Pull Request 226 - RAR and GNAP
[2021-09-21T20:30:27.132Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/vc-http-api/pull/226
[2021-09-21T20:31:01.563Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	manu: thanks to Justin for writing this up, lots of discussion.  some of this content has been moved to other PRs
[2021-09-21T20:31:23.890Z]	<Justin_Richer>	q+
[2021-09-21T20:31:29.816Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	Manu: How should we move forward with this, workflow and order of operations a little confusing
[2021-09-21T20:31:30.999Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	ack Justin
[2021-09-21T20:32:04.411Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	Justin: I marked this as a draft so as NOT to be merged. I put this in as a straw man/examples of the language the group *could* write
[2021-09-21T20:32:22.213Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	q+
[2021-09-21T20:32:30.698Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	... i think open or closed, this PR would be a good thing to cut and paste.  I wanted it in the repo because I felt words kept getting put in my mouth
[2021-09-21T20:32:35.029Z]	<mprorock>	+1 some very good language in here - note I think a lot has already been pulled out into other PRs
[2021-09-21T20:33:05.573Z]	<TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com)>	present+
[2021-09-21T20:33:27.006Z]	<TallTed>	present+
[2021-09-21T20:33:49.328Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	... I think this group has been happy to do things like work with scope strings, and I think the comments in this thread are good questions about designing APIs with actions in mind
[2021-09-21T20:33:52.131Z]	<Orie>	I provided feedback on the PR, but it has not been addressed.
[2021-09-21T20:34:04.753Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	Manu: I would recommend we leave it open as a draft PR so that we keep referring to it
[2021-09-21T20:34:28.009Z]	<agropper>	q+
[2021-09-21T20:34:30.327Z]	<mprorock>	@orie - this is a draft PR - have some of the other PRs covered your comments?
[2021-09-21T20:35:01.927Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	... I think the AuthZ PRs that have been broken out of it already, and leaving it open keeps our options open if we add sections later that could also borrow from this
[2021-09-21T20:35:03.139Z]	<Orie>	possibly... Im not against the idea behind his PR...
[2021-09-21T20:35:15.489Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	ack manu
[2021-09-21T20:35:17.320Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	ack agropper
[2021-09-21T20:35:23.990Z]	<Orie>	But it needs to graduate into a mergeable state.
[2021-09-21T20:35:52.987Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	agropper: I'm glad to keep this open, and propose we not return to it until AuthZ sections have been substanciated a bit more
[2021-09-21T20:36:22.379Z]	<Orie>	Justin is correct
[2021-09-21T20:36:26.539Z]	<Orie>	we can't merge a draft.
[2021-09-21T20:36:33.882Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	draft status is fine
[2021-09-21T20:36:40.546Z]	<Justin_Richer>	I marked it draft so it wouldn't be merged, it would be discussed.
[2021-09-21T20:36:52.572Z]	<Orie>	draft is fine, I won't approve it until it is mergeable and feedback is addressed.
[2021-09-21T20:37:04.202Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	manu: a label would be technically redundant but help scanning a long list of PRs
[2021-09-21T20:37:10.169Z]	<Justin_Richer>	I suggest "draft" because it has mechanical enforcement
[2021-09-21T20:37:21.956Z]	<Orie>	^ i think Justin did the right thin.
[2021-09-21T20:37:29.137Z]	<mprorock>	+1 orie
[2021-09-21T20:37:32.377Z]	<Justin_Richer>	I don't care if you label it
[2021-09-21T20:37:32.658Z]	<Mahmoud>	draft is fine
[2021-09-21T20:37:35.262Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	Draft is displayed in faint grey on the list by default
[2021-09-21T20:37:44.514Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	so it technically already displays it... just not in bright colors :D
[2021-09-21T20:37:54.602Z]	<Mahmoud>	q+
[2021-09-21T20:37:59.670Z]	<Orie>	its called "request changes"
[2021-09-21T20:38:01.582Z]	<Orie>	ffs
[2021-09-21T20:38:07.005Z]	<Orie>	q+
[2021-09-21T20:38:07.310Z]	<Justin_Richer>	+1 to orie
[2021-09-21T20:38:10.805Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	i think repo admins can bump a PR from or to draft
[2021-09-21T20:38:29.912Z]	<Dmitri_Zagidulin>	+1 to mahmoud's point
[2021-09-21T20:38:38.549Z]	<Justin_Richer>	we can't
[2021-09-21T20:38:39.391Z]	<Justin_Richer>	?
[2021-09-21T20:38:39.680Z]	<mprorock>	there is a do not merge label in there
[2021-09-21T20:38:59.495Z]	<TallTed>	q+
[2021-09-21T20:39:07.237Z]	<Mahmoud>	ack Mahmoud
[2021-09-21T20:39:07.725Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	+1
[2021-09-21T20:39:16.876Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	q?
[2021-09-21T20:39:20.607Z]	<Mahmoud>	ack Orie
[2021-09-21T20:39:21.577Z]	<Orie>	q-
[2021-09-21T20:39:23.720Z]	<brent>	sorry for jumping queue
[2021-09-21T20:39:24.620Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	ack orie
[2021-09-21T20:39:28.335Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	ack tallted
[2021-09-21T20:39:45.665Z]	<Justin_Richer>	labels don't block merge either
[2021-09-21T20:39:46.388Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	Tallted: Yes you can merge with requested changes open, and yes, you can mark someone else's PR as draft
[2021-09-21T20:39:46.645Z]	<Orie>	they do in the ccgg
[2021-09-21T20:39:51.713Z]	<Justin_Richer>	q+
[2021-09-21T20:39:52.120Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	... if you have admin rights
[2021-09-21T20:39:52.421Z]	<Orie>	we just agreed to that...
[2021-09-21T20:40:09.482Z]	<Orie>	q+
[2021-09-21T20:40:18.312Z]	<mprorock>	there is a do not merge label
[2021-09-21T20:40:18.892Z]	<TallTed>	+1 create label, apply it to this PR.  it may be rarely used, but it's useful nonetheless.
[2021-09-21T20:40:30.301Z]	<Orie>	you ccan mere over the do not merge label too
[2021-09-21T20:40:33.633Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	ack justin
[2021-09-21T20:40:36.341Z]	<mprorock>	+1 orie
[2021-09-21T20:40:46.687Z]	<Orie>	+1 Justin!
[2021-09-21T20:40:49.800Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	manu: I think you can only mark draft on a PR from a fork
[2021-09-21T20:41:12.504Z]	<mprorock>	we need to trust the editors to read the comments for objections, changes requestd, etc
[2021-09-21T20:41:13.558Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	Justin: I'm not a fan of "do not merge" because it can be used passive-aggressively
[2021-09-21T20:41:16.705Z]	<brent>	on github repos where I have proper access I can convert any PR to draft.
[2021-09-21T20:41:20.079Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	q?
[2021-09-21T20:41:23.249Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	ack orie
[2021-09-21T20:41:36.696Z]	<TallTed>	draft theoretically means that its author doesn't think it's ready for others to review, it exits draft for others to review, and *then* the merge question comes up.
[2021-09-21T20:42:07.953Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	Orie: These descriptive labels are kind of orthogonal to the behavior we're expecting in the code owners
[2021-09-21T20:43:05.434Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	... i think we need to remember the editors have power and responsibility
[2021-09-21T20:43:10.639Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	Manu: No op and move on?
[2021-09-21T20:43:10.853Z]	<Justin_Richer>	moving on is nice
[2021-09-21T20:43:18.419Z]	<mprorock>	+1 justin
[2021-09-21T20:36:05.133Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	Topic: Pull Request 227 - Single Word Change
[2021-09-21T20:43:32.107Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/vc-http-api/pull/227
[2021-09-21T20:43:34.567Z]	<bobwyman>	present+
[2021-09-21T20:44:02.768Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	Manu: Good example of new policy, SHIP IT
[2021-09-21T20:44:47.627Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	Topic: Pull Request 228 - Intro to Authz Section
[2021-09-21T20:44:48.697Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/vc-http-api/pull/228
[2021-09-21T20:44:54.569Z]	<Justin_Richer>	as an aside, this group is absolutely killing itself with process, in my opinion
[2021-09-21T20:45:02.903Z]	<Orie>	+1 Justin.
[2021-09-21T20:45:10.033Z]	<mprorock>	+1 justin
[2021-09-21T20:45:20.672Z]	<Orie>	The same applies to this PR.
[2021-09-21T20:45:35.443Z]	<Orie>	its been open for 10 days, no change requests
[2021-09-21T20:45:42.150Z]	<Orie>	it should be merged immediatly
[2021-09-21T20:45:49.896Z]	<Orie>	please merge it @manu.
[2021-09-21T20:46:03.842Z]	<Orie>	they had 10 days to review it....
[2021-09-21T20:46:15.878Z]	<Orie>	we just agreed to apply that policy.
[2021-09-21T20:46:37.062Z]	<Justin_Richer>	q+
[2021-09-21T20:46:38.566Z]	<Mahmoud>	+1 to Orie's point, assuming adrian's new CR's regarding the new name are accepted
[2021-09-21T20:46:38.713Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	Manu: Here is a good test case where I'm worried about the new policy being applied literally
[2021-09-21T20:46:43.604Z]	<agropper>	q+
[2021-09-21T20:46:51.256Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	ack Justin
[2021-09-21T20:46:59.915Z]	<Orie>	just request changes if you want to block the PR... its trivial to do.
[2021-09-21T20:47:25.874Z]	<Orie>	thanks Justin!
[2021-09-21T20:47:26.519Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	Justin_Richer: Here is an editorial hackjob that takes the letter of my comment and not the spirit. I do not like this PR
[2021-09-21T20:47:26.775Z]	<TallTed>	Multiple open change requests ... and says it's a partial substitute for #226, which also remains open, so what's the actual choice to be made?
[2021-09-21T20:47:29.667Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	q?
[2021-09-21T20:47:37.249Z]	<mprorock>	note: Joe has good editorial changes requested
[2021-09-21T20:47:37.742Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	Manu: That sounds like no objection to merge to me
[2021-09-21T20:47:41.321Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	ack agropper
[2021-09-21T20:47:41.675Z]	<TallTed>	q+
[2021-09-21T20:48:14.292Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	agropper: I think this reflects a particular API AuthZ strategy and I'd rather this PR stay open
[2021-09-21T20:48:15.448Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	ack TallTed
[2021-09-21T20:48:49.513Z]	<Orie>	there are no change requests, blocking the PR....
[2021-09-21T20:48:50.388Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	Tallted: This opens with a confusing "Partial alternate to another open PR" disclaimer so it feels hedgey
[2021-09-21T20:49:02.335Z]	<Orie>	use the "request for change feature"
[2021-09-21T20:49:05.290Z]	<mprorock>	q+
[2021-09-21T20:49:31.665Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	... I think the 226 versus alternatives thing is hard to parse
[2021-09-21T20:49:32.282Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	ack mpro
[2021-09-21T20:49:56.716Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	Mprorock: But if 226 is in draft and it's intended as a reference, this isn't an alternative, it's an offshoot of!
[2021-09-21T20:50:02.633Z]	<Orie>	I requested changes
[2021-09-21T20:50:06.489Z]	<Orie>	now it can't be mergged
[2021-09-21T20:50:12.224Z]	<Orie>	q+
[2021-09-21T20:50:29.204Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	ack Orie
[2021-09-21T20:50:46.434Z]	<Orie>	q-
[2021-09-21T20:51:05.469Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	ðŸ˜­
[2021-09-21T20:51:12.729Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	Topic: Pull Request 229 - Forbidden Authorization
[2021-09-21T20:51:17.531Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/vc-http-api/pull/229
[2021-09-21T20:51:59.072Z]	<Orie>	I have requested changes on this PR.
[2021-09-21T20:52:44.680Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	Topic: Pull Request 230 - Authorization Delegation
[2021-09-21T20:52:45.505Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/vc-http-api/pull/230
[2021-09-21T20:53:17.771Z]	<Justin_Richer>	ZCAP and GNAP solve completely different problems, though ...
[2021-09-21T20:53:54.961Z]	<Orie>	a normative statemen in a community draft...
[2021-09-21T20:54:18.069Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	Manu: Adrian does this make you happy or sad?
[2021-09-21T20:54:27.939Z]	<Orie>	I suggest approving or requesting changes Adrian and Justin.
[2021-09-21T20:54:46.459Z]	<Orie>	I don't care about your feelings, but would love to see a PR review on this ;)
[2021-09-21T20:55:03.525Z]	<Orie>	( I do care about your feelings )
[2021-09-21T20:55:04.419Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	agropper: As I've said before, I am interested in consensus on ideological questions, not low-level spec language.
[2021-09-21T20:55:04.902Z]	<Orie>	:)
[2021-09-21T20:55:44.747Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	Manu: I don't know how to help, we are working on spec language here.  I keep trying to channel your comments as best I can in drafting these PRs
[2021-09-21T20:56:05.438Z]	<Orie>	+1 David
[2021-09-21T20:56:05.860Z]	<TallTed>	q+
[2021-09-21T20:56:10.596Z]	<Orie>	I will request changes
[2021-09-21T20:56:19.761Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	ack TallTed
[2021-09-21T20:56:33.144Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	David_Chadwick: I'm putting a comment in that SHOULD --> MAY because in some spec contexts, SHOULDs are interpreted as MUSTS
[2021-09-21T20:56:42.576Z]	<agropper>	q+
[2021-09-21T20:56:53.034Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	ack agropper
[2021-09-21T20:57:00.309Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	TallTed: I strongly disagree, SHOULD means MUST UNLESS YOU KNOW WHAT YOU ARE DOING.  MAY is way too open/loose
[2021-09-21T20:57:02.841Z]	<Orie>	I agree with David, and I requested changes.
[2021-09-21T20:57:11.053Z]	<Orie>	it now can't be merged.
[2021-09-21T20:57:36.982Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	agropper: In contexts I've worked on, SHOULD has to be tested by conformance tests even if at deployment it isn't required
[2021-09-21T20:57:52.678Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	Adrian's comment on testing conforms with my understanding
[2021-09-21T20:57:55.850Z]	<Dmitri_Zagidulin>	Orie: I'd be interested to know why (re SHOULD -> MAY), from you
[2021-09-21T20:58:26.000Z]	<Orie>	I don't think anyone SHOULD use GNAP or ZCAPs ; )
[2021-09-21T20:58:42.195Z]	<Dmitri_Zagidulin>	thanks.
[2021-09-21T20:58:51.604Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	Topic: Pull Request 231 - OAuth 2.0 Bearer Tokens
[2021-09-21T20:58:52.670Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/vc-http-api/pull/231
[2021-09-21T20:59:25.125Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	Manu: I think these PRs parallelizes and compartmentalizes the options for AuthZ
[2021-09-21T20:59:32.578Z]	<Orie>	q+
[2021-09-21T20:59:37.859Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	ack Orie
[2021-09-21T20:59:39.977Z]	<mprorock>	can we accept Ted's changes and merge it?
[2021-09-21T20:59:56.189Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	Orie: Manu could you accept Ted's changes and merge on the call now?
[2021-09-21T21:00:11.824Z]	<Justin_Richer>	q+
[2021-09-21T21:00:12.638Z]	<Orie>	Thanks for the change request @TallTed!
[2021-09-21T21:00:23.444Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	ack Justin
[2021-09-21T21:00:37.540Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	Justin: I think the language in this PR doesn't make sense to me, needs work
[2021-09-21T21:00:45.558Z]	<Orie>	Justin, try using the "PR Review feature" of GitHub : )
[2021-09-21T21:00:56.113Z]	<Justin_Richer>	Orie: try using less snark :)
[2021-09-21T21:01:07.726Z]	<Orie>	I learned from the best
[2021-09-21T21:01:17.705Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	Manu: I think there is a new PR (233) that I'd love the group to review
[2021-09-21T21:01:19.563Z]	<mprorock>	this call was all snark
[2021-09-21T21:01:21.716Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	thanks all
