[2021-07-20T15:58:37.265Z]	<mprorock>	present+
[2021-07-20T15:58:37.266Z]	<TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com)>	present+
[2021-07-20T15:59:30.889Z]	<Geun-Hyung>	present+
[2021-07-20T16:00:01.959Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	present+
[2021-07-20T16:00:22.256Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	present+
[2021-07-20T16:00:24.139Z]	<Steve_Gance>	present+
[2021-07-20T16:00:36.553Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	present+
[2021-07-20T16:00:41.171Z]	<Charles_E._Lehner>	present+
[2021-07-20T16:01:26.983Z]	<Mahmoud>	present+
[2021-07-20T16:01:36.364Z]	<econnell_>	present+
[2021-07-20T16:01:36.542Z]	<Dmitri_Z>	present+
[2021-07-20T16:01:44.282Z]	<Orie>	present+
[2021-07-20T16:01:53.124Z]	<econnell>	present+
[2021-07-20T16:02:20.706Z]	<Mike_Varley>	present+
[2021-07-20T16:02:23.316Z]	<Markus_Sabadello>	present+
[2021-07-20T16:02:29.753Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	present+
[2021-07-20T16:02:34.840Z]	<Juan_Caballero_(Spruce)>	present+
[2021-07-20T16:03:07.585Z]	<mprorock>	Agenda: https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-credentials/2021Jul/0121.html
[2021-07-20T16:03:08.585Z]	<mprorock>	NEXT MEETING:
Kerri Lemoie will update the group on Open Badges, If he is available, Anthony Camilleri will provide a quick overview on Europass, and we will get some thoughts from Identity and supply chain focused thought leaders on techniques in those spaces that may aid or streamline EDU focused efforts (Orie Steele, and Tobias Looker).

Tuesday, July 20th 2021
Time: Tuesdays, at 9am PT, Noon ET, 5pm GMT, 6pm CET / 6AM+1 NZDT
(see: https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/converter.html?iso=20210720T160000&p1=tz_pt&p2=tz_et&p3=tz_cest&p4=tz_bst)

Text Chat:
      http://irc.w3.org/?channels=ccg
      irc://irc.w3.org:6665/#ccg

Jitsi Teleconf:
      https://meet.w3c-ccg.org/weekly

Voice:
     US phone: tel:+1.602.932.2243;1

We are working on SIP dial-in and international phone numbers.

Duration: 60 minutes

MINUTES FROM LAST MEETING:
https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/

MEETING MODERATOR: Michael Prorock <mprorock@mesur.io>
PROPOSED AGENDA:
1. Agenda Review (2 minutes)
2. IP Note: (1 minute)
Anyone can participate in these calls. However, all substantive contributors to any CCG Work Items must be members of the CCG with full IPR agreements signed. https://www.w3.org/community/credentials/join
    a. Ensure you have a W3 account: https://www.w3.org/accounts/request
    b. W3C COMMUNITY CONTRIBUTOR LICENSE AGREEMENT (CLA): https://www.w3.org/community/about/agreements/cla/
3. Call Notes (1 minute)
    a. These minutes and an audio recording of everything said on this call are archived at https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/
    b. We use IRC to queue speakers during the call as well as to take minutes. http://irc.w3.org/?channels=ccg or http://irc.w3.org:6665/#ccg or the Jitsi text chat.
    c. All attendees should type “present+” to get your name on the attendee list in the transcript.
    d. In IRC type “q+” to add yourself to the queue, with an optional reminder, e.g., “q+ to mention something”. The “to” is required.
    e. If you’re not on IRC, simply ask to be put on the queue.
    f. Please be brief so the rest of the queue get a chance to chime in. You can always q+ again.
    g. NOTE: This meeting is held by voice, not by IRC. Off-topic IRC comments are subject to deletion from the record. We work hard to manage a single thread of conversation so everyone can participate and be heard. Please respect the group process by joining the queue when you have something to contribute.
4. Scribe Selection (2 minutes)
We need a volunteer to scribe. Scribe List: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1LkqZ10z7FeV3EgMIQEJ9achEYMzy1d_2S90Q_lQ0y8M/edit?usp=sharing
5. Introductions & Reintroductions (5 minutes --> :11) (see scribe doc for reintroduce column)
6. Announcements & Reminders (2 minutes)
https://w3c-ccg.github.io/announcements/
7. Progress on Action Items (5 minutes --> :18)
https://github.com/w3c-ccg/community/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3A%22action%3A+review+next%22
8. Open Badges (Kerri Lemoie) (15mins+)
9. Europass (Anthony Camilleri)
10. Reactions and broader thoughts / cross domain (Orie & Tobias) (10mins)
11. General Q&A and Discussion
[2021-07-20T16:03:20.772Z]	<Taylor>	present+
[2021-07-20T16:03:52.908Z]	<Adrian_Gropper>	present+
[2021-07-20T16:05:30.644Z]	<Mahmoud>	hi Mike
[2021-07-20T16:05:33.572Z]	<Mahmoud>	i can scrigbe
[2021-07-20T16:05:35.725Z]	<Mahmoud>	scribe*
[2021-07-20T16:05:38.519Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	present+
[2021-07-20T16:05:40.293Z]	<Mahmoud>	scribe+
[2021-07-20T16:05:40.956Z]	<Juan_Caballero_(Spruce)>	thanks mahmoud!
[2021-07-20T16:06:04.157Z]	<Juan_Caballero_(Spruce)>	/me regrets not being able to scribe today
[2021-07-20T16:06:08.882Z]	<Mahmoud>	Mike: Scribe selection, IPR note and intro to meeting
[2021-07-20T16:06:09.625Z]	<Mike_Varley>	q+
[2021-07-20T16:06:18.690Z]	<Mahmoud>	...: Introductions!
[2021-07-20T16:06:36.708Z]	<JeffO-StL>	present+
[2021-07-20T16:06:41.761Z]	<Mahmoud>	Mike Varley: Saying hi to those who haven't met me. Architect at Secure Key and work on the VC- HTTP-API work and happy to be here.
[2021-07-20T16:06:54.543Z]	<Mahmoud>	Mike: any other re-intros?
[2021-07-20T16:07:15.568Z]	<JoeAndrieu>	present+
[2021-07-20T16:07:17.249Z]	<Mahmoud>	mprorok: moving on. Looking for upcoming announcements.
[2021-07-20T16:07:18.998Z]	<mprorock>	https://w3c-ccg.github.io/announcements/
[2021-07-20T16:07:19.294Z]	<Joe_Andrieu>	present+
[2021-07-20T16:07:33.442Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	q+
[2021-07-20T16:07:47.133Z]	<Juan_Caballero_(Spruce)>	https://internetidentityworkshop.com/
[2021-07-20T16:07:49.809Z]	<Mahmoud>	Heather: Reminder there are a couple of special IIW meetings.
[2021-07-20T16:08:16.575Z]	<mprorock>	ack manu
[2021-07-20T16:08:20.390Z]	<mprorock>	q?
[2021-07-20T16:08:26.963Z]	<Kaliya>	present+
[2021-07-20T16:08:26.999Z]	<mprorock>	ack Mike_
[2021-07-20T16:08:38.818Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	Here is Kaliya's email about the IIW special tpics: https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-credentials/2021Jul/0110.html
[2021-07-20T16:08:43.392Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	Woohoo! Congrats!
[2021-07-20T16:09:18.037Z]	<JeffO-StL>	Beat me by a second Heather! Nice draw! Thx
[2021-07-20T16:09:23.374Z]	<Mahmoud>	Manu: the DID working group, voted to transition the did: spec to the proposed recommendation stage, this is the last stage  of work on the spec by hte group. The next stage is the W3C votes on the vote to become a standard or not. This is mostly autopilot and the expectation is after the month it transitions into a standard.
[2021-07-20T16:09:37.572Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	Awesome news, Manu!
[2021-07-20T16:09:54.370Z]	<Mahmoud>	...: huge props to the community for incubating the work and transitioning it to a full Spec! we almost have another global standard under our belt
[2021-07-20T16:10:03.394Z]	<Taylor>	Congrats...we almost DID it :)
[2021-07-20T16:10:09.179Z]	<Mahmoud>	mike: did the provision around enabling features go through?
[2021-07-20T16:11:04.364Z]	<Mahmoud>	Manu: no it failed! we were going to enable a mode in the spec to update it in the core spec with a quick turnaround of 3-6 months but there we re a nubmer of legitimate objections including we had a DID spec registries to update and there was a desire for stability.
[2021-07-20T16:11:13.512Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	q+
[2021-07-20T16:11:18.826Z]	<Mahmoud>	...: this will all be in the minutes which will be published soon. This is not a bad thing.
[2021-07-20T16:11:29.244Z]	<Mahmoud>	Mike: was curious to see how this new process would shake out.
[2021-07-20T16:11:31.259Z]	<mprorock>	q?
[2021-07-20T16:11:36.686Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	An announcement that there will be presentation to IMSGLOBAL for a new version of the Open Badge Model (OBv3) this Thursday morning. While the presentation is restricted to IMSGLOBAL members, there is an open GitHub where the proposal can be found (https://github.com/IMSGlobal/openbadges-specification) and comments can be offered.
[2021-07-20T16:11:38.153Z]	<mprorock>	ack heath
[2021-07-20T16:11:52.395Z]	<kezike>	present+
[2021-07-20T16:11:59.063Z]	<FNf4e8d25389c2225a8ef26bbcb13abe48>	present+
[2021-07-20T16:12:37.715Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	Note this OBv3 is to move the Open Badge to be fully compliant VC in the Verified Credential ecosystem.
[2021-07-20T16:12:44.784Z]	<Mahmoud>	Heather: Congrats everyone! One of the reasons i want to be involved in CCG. I'm wondering if theres interest of a timeline or a recap of how the idea came out, got into CCG, both to tell the story of hte work and to share the process! Curios if theres interest in putting something together from the community.
[2021-07-20T16:13:15.012Z]	<mprorock>	q?
[2021-07-20T16:13:15.340Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	I think it's a really good thing to document history -- we do have transcriptions, but no one is going to go back and read everything. There will be many parents (of success) :)
[2021-07-20T16:13:19.365Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	Yup! That's what I was thinking
[2021-07-20T16:13:20.969Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	Thanks P1 - I'm going to be presenting the Obv3 proposal today.
[2021-07-20T16:13:21.965Z]	<Mahmoud>	Mike: i think thats a great question, and I have an interest and would help facilitate work on that from the broader community
[2021-07-20T16:13:37.685Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	:-)
[2021-07-20T16:13:48.072Z]	<mprorock>	q?
[2021-07-20T16:13:58.051Z]	<Mahmoud>	Heather: Part of this is myself selfishly wanting to help other folks to understand and get the story of how it happened
[2021-07-20T16:14:20.588Z]	<Mahmoud>	...: this is a community effort and there are a lot of folks in the community
[2021-07-20T16:14:22.304Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	Sounds great!
[2021-07-20T16:14:30.310Z]	<identitywoman>	Q+
[2021-07-20T16:14:39.100Z]	<mprorock>	q?
[2021-07-20T16:14:44.865Z]	<Matthias_Gottlieb>	present+
[2021-07-20T16:14:51.284Z]	<identitywoman>	I have the https://www.eventbrite.com/e/user-experience-in-ssi-an-iiw-special-topic-12-day-virtual-event-tickets-159946001797
[2021-07-20T16:15:10.480Z]	<Mahmoud>	Kaliya: I jsut wnated to share that this week we have the UX workshop as a special IIW topic and in two weeks we have one on the business of SSI
[2021-07-20T16:15:12.961Z]	<mprorock>	q?
[2021-07-20T16:15:30.245Z]	<manu>	q- identitywoman
[2021-07-20T16:15:57.302Z]	<identitywoman>	The business of SSI - IIW Special Topic event - https://www.eventbrite.com/e/the-business-of-ssi-an-iiw-special-topic-12-day-virtual-event-tickets-161249943923
[2021-07-20T16:16:06.388Z]	<Mahmoud>	Mike: i met Keri on the 101 group and thats my first real cross intersection of people working on the vc-edu and open badges and we thought it would be very helpful since theres great headway on the open badges side, talking about where things are , where theyre going and more!
[2021-07-20T16:16:43.959Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/13-NI6UGFZb5rCoLLTVTI8w2eN3BdVsPGhYRuoLCmBN8/edit#slide=id.p
[2021-07-20T16:17:00.315Z]	<Mahmoud>	Kerri: The link shared are the slides for the discussion today
[2021-07-20T16:17:03.004Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	PDF proposal: https://github.com/concentricsky/openbadges-specification/blob/feature/ob3/proposals/OBv3p0/Proposal-Open-Badges-3.0.pdf
[2021-07-20T16:17:17.470Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	PR: https://github.com/IMSGlobal/openbadges-specification/pull/303
[2021-07-20T16:17:20.071Z]	<Mahmoud>	...: a link to PDF for the proposal and a link to the PR where we'd love your input
[2021-07-20T16:18:13.958Z]	<Mahmoud>	Kerri: as Mike and phil mentioned in the chat we're proposing open badges as aligned with the VC data model
[2021-07-20T16:18:42.200Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	present+
[2021-07-20T16:18:49.111Z]	<Mahmoud>	...: the VC Edu task force is working on making a recommendation, considering theres a plethora of standards already existing and how can we wrap them all into a unified envelope
[2021-07-20T16:19:47.951Z]	<Mahmoud>	...: Lets try it with a single standard achievement (open badges) and see how it goes. Ive been working with it for quite a while ( 10 years). this needs to be validated by IMS global who will be asked to approve so we can work on it and improve. This is afirst take at the proposal and is by no means finished
[2021-07-20T16:20:02.971Z]	<Kayode_Ezike>	present+
[2021-07-20T16:20:08.388Z]	<Mahmoud>	...: ope nbadges is a recognition system using digital badges to recognize skills and achievements outside formal institutions
[2021-07-20T16:20:25.559Z]	<Mahmoud>	... how it works is tehres a digital graphic and theres metadata in the photo that has the achievement.
[2021-07-20T16:20:38.689Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	q?
[2021-07-20T16:21:15.306Z]	<Mahmoud>	....: this data is hosted by the issuer and if it goes away it can 404. this can be signed by the issuer and does not have the properties of time/verifiability that VCs do.
[2021-07-20T16:21:19.727Z]	<JeffO-StL>	present+
[2021-07-20T16:21:22.075Z]	<Brent>	present+
[2021-07-20T16:21:36.516Z]	<Mahmoud>	...: Open badges contributed to the very first VC use cases, in 2015 we started mvoing them to JSON-LD
[2021-07-20T16:22:11.493Z]	<Mahmoud>	...: i work for Concentric Sky, and we're very much about open standards and interop and we believe in SSI and giving people control over their info
[2021-07-20T16:22:41.194Z]	<Mahmoud>	...: some of this work started a long time ago, (2018) there have been issues at IMS global and we've been discussing this in VC-EDU
[2021-07-20T16:23:13.301Z]	<Mahmoud>	...: because its a well known standard we've realized that we can keep trying to make it work between both VCs and Open badges, we said lets go all in and make Open Badges native VCs.
[2021-07-20T16:23:19.891Z]	<Mahmoud>	...: these are the over all design goals
[2021-07-20T16:24:09.586Z]	<Mahmoud>	...: Align with VC Data Model; Issuer and Recipient URIs; Badge Creater concept; Integrate CLR;  Skill Assertions; Verifiable Presentations
[2021-07-20T16:24:12.936Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	q+ to ask about issuer/receipient DIDs -- what does the market need?
[2021-07-20T16:24:55.585Z]	<David_Lehn>	present+
[2021-07-20T16:25:29.202Z]	<Mahmoud>	...: We're looking to add open badges community and you should all roughly know what a VC assertion is: crypto proof, tamper evident, an assertion and makes badge baking optional ( putting metadata in an image)
[2021-07-20T16:25:50.505Z]	<Mahmoud>	...: Images have been a main point of open badges because theyre hosted its usually an html with an image, what we're suggestign is it could be optional.
[2021-07-20T16:26:07.561Z]	<Mahmoud>	...: we believe this increases trustworthiness in open badges and allow integrations to VC wallets
[2021-07-20T16:26:58.513Z]	<Mahmoud>	...: on the left is the current spec , the right hand side is current proposal where the badge class is part of the credential subject and it could be the issuer or someone else. and we ofcourse want to use teh VC proof
[2021-07-20T16:27:39.311Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	q?
[2021-07-20T16:27:39.354Z]	<Mahmoud>	...: because we have the isseur at the assertion level, the recipients have been emails sicne the begining and usually they like using emails not urls, we would like to eventually make a shift to dids/urls
[2021-07-20T16:27:41.270Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	ack manu
[2021-07-20T16:27:58.659Z]	<Mahmoud>	Manu: the VC spec is like any URL will work, mailto with an email, http url or did etc.
[2021-07-20T16:28:04.196Z]	<Orie>	mailto would work.
[2021-07-20T16:28:29.571Z]	<Mahmoud>	...: we had contemplated do we want to work on did:web and standardize it, is there an industry need to adopt, hwere does the industry seem to want to go
[2021-07-20T16:28:44.998Z]	<Orie>	<3 did:web !!!
[2021-07-20T16:28:49.057Z]	<Mahmoud>	Kerri: it varies i think we need ot use did:web because itll be a while till peole understand dids and i think the VCC wallet
[2021-07-20T16:29:06.900Z]	<Mahmoud>	Kerri: Digital Credential Consortium learner wallet *** not VCC
[2021-07-20T16:29:39.624Z]	<JeffO-StL>	present+
[2021-07-20T16:30:08.253Z]	<Mahmoud>	Kerri: This is what i was saying earlier abouyt badge creator, the issuer is referenced by the badge, and the issuer makes hte badge, there has been calls for extensions and there are many times where the creators of the credentials arent doingthe assessment of the task
[2021-07-20T16:31:02.799Z]	<Joe_Andrieu>	+1 for Rubrics!
[2021-07-20T16:31:03.667Z]	<Mahmoud>	...: Two properties that are being looked at from the IMS global CLR global badges achievemnt type, people downplay badges whats a badge etc. Adding this type would generalise and solidify that understanding and would show levels of mastery and tying achievements to descriptors. if interested look int oopen skills network
[2021-07-20T16:31:14.950Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	OSN https:openskillsnetwork.org
[2021-07-20T16:32:10.131Z]	<Mahmoud>	...: Skill assertion is just skipping the badge class, and make an assertion referencing the single skill like: i know how to write proposal, and the assertion is kerri can write proposal. This forgoes the need for a badge class and simplifies the standard and allows assertions that are simpler
[2021-07-20T16:33:19.211Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	q+ to ask about challenges
[2021-07-20T16:33:21.849Z]	<Mahmoud>	...: VPs are ver y new to open badges, most peopel share them on social media, and they might email them to someone. I had a convo with someone about VCs, folks are very much printing badges etc. We have wallets that allow bundling of badges and allow people to have control over their own credentials. this is new to open badges even if not just this community
[2021-07-20T16:33:23.662Z]	<mprorock>	q?
[2021-07-20T16:33:29.376Z]	<agropper>	q+
[2021-07-20T16:33:43.895Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	q-
[2021-07-20T16:33:45.880Z]	<Taylor>	Useful writeup from Kerri as well - https://kayaelle.medium.com/the-future-of-open-badges-is-verifiable-bce27664a668
[2021-07-20T16:33:49.746Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	q+ to ask about challenges
[2021-07-20T16:34:01.848Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	Note the RSDs have additional metadata beyond the descriptor, though to date they are blank (text) fields. There is also a URL alignment field associated with RSD.
[2021-07-20T16:34:07.076Z]	<Mahmoud>	Mike: before we dive into questions i wanted to pre-seed the discussion topic a bit to bring in two poeple who don't work in EDU and will ask for commentary from Orie and Mike Varley
[2021-07-20T16:34:33.013Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	+1 to quick commentary/reaction! :)
[2021-07-20T16:34:34.097Z]	<Mahmoud>	...: we found overlap from edu and other groups wanted to get some quick commentary and reaction from them first in the interest of cross-pollinating
[2021-07-20T16:34:36.770Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	I like the format.
[2021-07-20T16:34:55.863Z]	<identitywoman>	<3
[2021-07-20T16:35:31.034Z]	<Mahmoud>	Orie: Generally excited about open badges, one of the things thats challenging is theres many use cases where you want them verifiable but never publicly share them, which can be challenging and lead to challenges with issuer/subject id methods
[2021-07-20T16:35:50.389Z]	<Mahmoud>	...: public credentiasl lead to public reputation which is either a feature or defect depending on where you stand
[2021-07-20T16:35:59.539Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	q+
[2021-07-20T16:36:22.701Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	q-
[2021-07-20T16:36:27.972Z]	<Mahmoud>	...: i liekd the PR and tehres number of consdierations on graphic encoding of credentials which i'm not prepared to talka bout rn. DCC has made some great choices.
[2021-07-20T16:36:56.204Z]	<Orie>	q+ to talk about CBOR-LD for JSON-LD
[2021-07-20T16:36:58.505Z]	<Mahmoud>	Mike: i know we've run into many printing VCs, Qrs etc and this is definitely a hting in the EDU world.
[2021-07-20T16:37:10.579Z]	<mprorock>	q?
[2021-07-20T16:37:37.375Z]	<Mahmoud>	mvarley: i think this initiative and combinign with VCs could be very powerful and have long reaching arms in the use-cases and industries weve worked with.
[2021-07-20T16:37:42.898Z]	<Kayode_Ezike>	present+
[2021-07-20T16:39:28.868Z]	<Mahmoud>	...: while we've mostly focused on who you are, we've run into many industries where credentials and qualifiecations run into play where it intersects with personal workflows, like i need to open a resturant and know what certs i need, it also fits into the supply chain work we've seen, like is this person trained to operate a forklift etc. Building that kind of portfolio of credentials is important and i wanted to relate it back to another topic, there are scenarios of people who have found themselves homeless, and want t oget into the workforce, and they want to get trainign certs and its very difficult when its paper based.
[2021-07-20T16:39:41.971Z]	<Mahmoud>	...: having an e-format woudl make this muc hsimpler so very excited for hits work
[2021-07-20T16:40:14.762Z]	<mprorock>	ack agropper
[2021-07-20T16:40:17.795Z]	<Mahmoud>	Mike: appreciate that tie in to individual skill validation, as its something we see in teh food/ag space where an open badge is issued for osmoene in the food processing plant which can then be linked to a VC for shipment etc.
[2021-07-20T16:40:19.004Z]	<mprorock>	q?
[2021-07-20T16:40:42.799Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	"Proof that presenter has control of the credentials"
[2021-07-20T16:40:44.611Z]	<Mahmoud>	Adrian: back to Kerris' last slide: something about proving that the subject of the credential is the holder of their credential
[2021-07-20T16:41:04.047Z]	<Mahmoud>	...: but not necessarily possession?
[2021-07-20T16:41:10.853Z]	<Orie>	sounds like textbook vp definition....
[2021-07-20T16:41:23.666Z]	<Orie>	from the spec section of subject and holder.
[2021-07-20T16:41:24.080Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	+1
[2021-07-20T16:41:28.763Z]	<Joe_Andrieu>	+1 control
[2021-07-20T16:41:38.449Z]	<Mahmoud>	KErri: i think we still have room to learn, but it hink we just wanted to make that something like this is possible, im not sure about possession/ control.
[2021-07-20T16:41:46.114Z]	<TallTed>	Presenter is necessarily a Holder
[2021-07-20T16:41:46.123Z]	<mprorock>	+1 manu & orie
[2021-07-20T16:41:47.669Z]	<Mahmoud>	Adrian: just looking for a usecase for that brief example.
[2021-07-20T16:42:06.483Z]	<Joe_Andrieu>	possession is required to perform verification, but it doesn't need to come from the holder
[2021-07-20T16:42:10.813Z]	<TallTed>	neither is necessarily the Subject
[2021-07-20T16:42:31.031Z]	<Mahmoud>	Kerri: because there isnt a way for someone to have a brief way, just because you have an open badge does not mean you actually have the open badge, isnt that an identity not a control issue.
[2021-07-20T16:42:33.621Z]	<mprorock>	ack Manu
[2021-07-20T16:42:39.413Z]	<mprorock>	q?
[2021-07-20T16:42:54.552Z]	<Orie>	See: https://www.w3.org/TR/vc-data-model/#subject-holder-relationships
[2021-07-20T16:43:00.297Z]	<Mahmoud>	Adrian: isnt that an identity not a control issue? 
Kerri: sorry cant answer atm.
[2021-07-20T16:43:42.012Z]	<Mahmoud>	Manu: great proposal so far, what kind of pushback are you getting so far? why cant we take our current format rn and shove in a VC and work with it? what do you feel is the biggest soucrce of friction and challenge in moving it forward in IMS.
[2021-07-20T16:43:53.792Z]	<Joe_Andrieu>	adrian IMO, identity is established by VCs rather than the other way around
[2021-07-20T16:44:15.498Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	There's always a competing specification :P
[2021-07-20T16:44:27.564Z]	<Mahmoud>	Kerri: IMS has a comprehensive learner record Spec and we're looking for how they align with Open badges and CLRs and some of the people who are working there are wondering why we arent including CLRs in the initial prposal and i think thats where some friciton is.
[2021-07-20T16:44:35.044Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	... and there is always room to align (or diverge).
[2021-07-20T16:44:39.562Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	Q
[2021-07-20T16:44:45.249Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	Q+
[2021-07-20T16:45:01.325Z]	<Mahmoud>	...: some is also from people who are working 2.0 and dont want to shift, and theres always a version gap and mayb e some tiem before we get people up to speed to latest version
[2021-07-20T16:45:36.479Z]	<Mahmoud>	...: tehres also some gap as most people assosciate html as part of the spec when it isnt. and tehres some friciton there as the backend json is the spec not the html. people can still keep their prettyHTML.
[2021-07-20T16:45:37.438Z]	<mprorock>	ack Orie
[2021-07-20T16:47:09.194Z]	<Mahmoud>	Orie: i wanted to talk about VC encoding that is machine readable, QR code is pretty much impossible for a credential that says somethign extensive about the VC. CBOR-LD has had some work to help compress the work and the binary representation isnt a VC spec compliant format and so if you have JSON-LD VCs you can convert to CBOR-LD bakc and forth up to a certain size limit
[2021-07-20T16:47:12.628Z]	<Taylor>	+1 @manu..always ;)
[2021-07-20T16:47:13.057Z]	<mprorock>	ack Phil_L
[2021-07-20T16:47:16.298Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	Yes, exactly what Orie said AND there is a digital signature on the VC -- they're verifiable QR Codes.
[2021-07-20T16:47:16.798Z]	<TallTed>	use DIDmeme to produce steganographed VC in photo of badgewearer (instead of QRcode)!  ;-)
[2021-07-20T16:47:39.622Z]	<mprorock>	:)
[2021-07-20T16:47:52.574Z]	<Mahmoud>	Kerri: somewhat related to the badge images, i always wanted the image to associated with the achievement. I wanted each image to have a reflection of the image itself and be verifiable.
[2021-07-20T16:48:13.112Z]	<mprorock>	q?
[2021-07-20T16:48:46.254Z]	<Mahmoud>	Phil: +1 to the CBOR-LD approach. It was intriguing and powerful, looking at some of the pushbacks and concerns int he context of ims global.
[2021-07-20T16:49:19.550Z]	<Mahmoud>	...: there is another thing tha tis more associated with an interest  that is more institutional and that extends not jsut to all the courses they have taken but also to competencies they have achieved.
[2021-07-20T16:50:18.795Z]	<Mahmoud>	...: the CLR tends to make it big and allows each to make them signed and wrap together with an envelope of a VC but to do that wrapping is a separate application adn that is done before that badge in teh wrapped VC form is able to sent to a wallet. tehres an added complication that the CLR does not natively support a VP.
[2021-07-20T16:50:33.348Z]	<mprorock>	q?
[2021-07-20T16:50:58.075Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	q+
[2021-07-20T16:51:04.797Z]	<Mahmoud>	Mike: i find this area fascinating and public facing and can look innocuous.
[2021-07-20T16:51:08.365Z]	<mprorock>	ack manu
[2021-07-20T16:51:35.365Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	Comments here: https://github.com/IMSGlobal/openbadges-specification/pull/303
[2021-07-20T16:51:35.739Z]	<Mahmoud>	Manu: What can we do as a community to supoprt you? i think most of us are supportive of it, what can we do to help IMS global make the transition
[2021-07-20T16:51:48.637Z]	<Mahmoud>	Kerri: first thing is make comments on the PR, any comments go a long way.
[2021-07-20T16:52:09.133Z]	<Mahmoud>	Phil: that will go into teh record of the conversation, unfortunately its limited to IMS global members, and so its closed to teh public
[2021-07-20T16:52:23.860Z]	<Kayode_Ezike>	present+
[2021-07-20T16:52:45.555Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	Thank you, crystal clear
[2021-07-20T16:52:46.745Z]	<Mahmoud>	...: the second thing is anythign tha tmight reflect communities you represent and anything tha tmight show the selection of badges you might use in hte communities. statements to the alignment of the approach would be wonderful
[2021-07-20T16:52:54.508Z]	<Mahmoud>	Kerri: the examples discussed today would be great.
[2021-07-20T16:53:02.129Z]	<mprorock>	q?
[2021-07-20T16:53:08.089Z]	<Mahmoud>	Kerri: once its approved, im sure we'll be leaning on you for all kinds of supports to get it done well
[2021-07-20T16:53:41.631Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q+
[2021-07-20T16:53:54.771Z]	<mprorock>	ack kerri
[2021-07-20T16:53:54.856Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	q+ thanks to Mike for a great call
[2021-07-20T16:54:03.640Z]	<Mahmoud>	Kerri: Wanted to say thank you for having us and for the support.
[2021-07-20T16:54:18.498Z]	<Mahmoud>	Mike: i dont think theres enough cross polination and i think therse also room for cross-interop
[2021-07-20T16:54:33.262Z]	<Mahmoud>	...: thats one of the most powerful things in the community.
[2021-07-20T16:54:34.580Z]	<mprorock>	ack hea
[2021-07-20T16:54:37.410Z]	<mprorock>	q?
[2021-07-20T16:54:41.576Z]	<Taylor>	+1 cross-pollinate y’all! 🐝
[2021-07-20T16:54:45.940Z]	<Juan_Caballero_(Spruce)>	+1!
[2021-07-20T16:54:59.279Z]	<Mahmoud>	Heather: just wanted to say thanks to you mike for running a great meeting, and looking forward to having you in the mix going forward.
[2021-07-20T16:54:59.461Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	lols at "cross-pollinate y'all" :)
[2021-07-20T16:55:08.445Z]	<Mahmoud>	Mike: anyone else have any comments?
[2021-07-20T16:55:09.094Z]	<Juan_Caballero_(Spruce)>	great radio voice 🎙
[2021-07-20T16:55:19.758Z]	<Mahmoud>	Mike: if not thank you for your time
[2021-07-20T16:55:28.642Z]	<Charles_E._Lehner>	Thanks Mahmoud for scribing
[2021-07-20T16:55:29.678Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	:beer:
[2021-07-20T16:55:40.530Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	Thank you
[2021-07-20T16:55:41.052Z]	<Kayode_Ezike>	:wave:
