[2021-05-11T16:02:46.390Z]	<mprorock>	present+
[2021-05-11T16:02:47.917Z]	<econnell>	present+
[2021-05-11T16:02:51.236Z]	<Geun-Hyung_>	present+
[2021-05-11T16:02:57.845Z]	<Jeff_Stephens>	present+
[2021-05-11T16:03:01.277Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	present+
[2021-05-11T16:03:03.605Z]	<heathervescent>	present+
[2021-05-11T16:03:04.217Z]	<manu>	present+
[2021-05-11T16:03:25.399Z]	<JeffO-StL>	present+
[2021-05-11T16:03:31.979Z]	<cel>	present+
[2021-05-11T16:03:38.257Z]	<agropper_>	present+
[2021-05-11T16:03:49.771Z]	<chriswinc>	present+
[2021-05-11T16:04:30.021Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	q-
[2021-05-11T16:04:35.111Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	present+
[2021-05-11T16:05:16.542Z]	<brent>	present+
[2021-05-11T16:05:22.704Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	scribe+ Mahmoud
[2021-05-11T16:05:42.512Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	Woo! Thanks for volunteering, Mahmoud!
[2021-05-11T16:05:50.884Z]	<heathervescent>	Agenda: https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-credentials/2021May/0056.html
[2021-05-11T16:06:07.226Z]	<heathervescent>	Topic: Introductions & Reintroductions
[2021-05-11T16:06:12.878Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	Wayne: Introductions, anyone want to introduce themselves?
[2021-05-11T16:06:15.978Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	q?
[2021-05-11T16:06:49.662Z]	<heathervescent>	Mahmoud: I'll help with scribe topics. Thank you for volunteering!!
[2021-05-11T16:06:56.897Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	Wayne: any reintroductions any projects you want to share? would anyone like to reintroduce themselves?
[2021-05-11T16:07:14.160Z]	<heathervescent>	Topic: Announcements & Reminders
[2021-05-11T16:07:14.985Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	Wayne: Announcements: no announcements right now would anyone like to add any?
[2021-05-11T16:07:21.688Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	q?
[2021-05-11T16:07:28.468Z]	<brent>	q+
[2021-05-11T16:07:42.116Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	ack brent
[2021-05-11T16:08:50.620Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	brent: DID spec reminder, need feedback to progress. Added myself to introduce theres a claims and credentiasl working group at DIF to define VP protocol that makes use of different community layers called the WACKI presentation exchange protocol, reach out to me for any questions. it aims to be a way for anyone to submit a VP Request and get a VP in return
[2021-05-11T16:09:00.319Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	q+
[2021-05-11T16:09:11.264Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	ack Manu
[2021-05-11T16:09:26.833Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	Manu: CCG has work item for VP request what are the overlaps with the DIF work?
[2021-05-11T16:10:04.110Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	q+
[2021-05-11T16:10:18.605Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	ack Manu
[2021-05-11T16:10:20.351Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	Brent: we hope theres lots of overlap, limitations are that CCG appears to be http-centric. DIF aims to be transport agnostic. there is broad interest in making a solution that is similar regardless of transport
[2021-05-11T16:11:16.857Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	q?
[2021-05-11T16:11:24.623Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	Manu: CCG VP request Spec is meant to be agnostic. We might be at a collision course if the specs end up very different. There are current concerns about CCG spec not being well formed. Just a heads up there might be misalignment potential and we should work on getting things merged properly and be vigilant
[2021-05-11T16:11:29.788Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/community/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3A%22action%3A+review+next%22
[2021-05-11T16:11:32.066Z]	<heathervescent>	Topic: Action Items
[2021-05-11T16:11:56.498Z]	<brent>	WACI Presentation Exchange: https://github.com/decentralized-identity/waci-presentation-exchange
[2021-05-11T16:12:14.290Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	Wayne: Two action items:
* traceability api lots of discussion and no objcetions. will activate repo and work item, name to be finalized probably going to be traceability interop
[2021-05-11T16:13:11.693Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	wayne: ... * Meeting at 11 am EST 8 PST 5 CET? to discuss outstanding PR to determining if this is actually PR for maintenance or just feature requests
[2021-05-11T16:13:16.074Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	https://github.com/w3c/vc-data-model/pull/774
[2021-05-11T16:13:25.245Z]	<heathervescent>	Topic: Review Process for VC data model
[2021-05-11T16:15:15.677Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	wayne: VC-Data-Model, after lots of disucssions with members of community, discussing how are we going to respond to PRs, we have decided we will only focus on PRs that address inconsistencies. This is nto an easy process and will take some work and depending on change type will be marked as editorial or substantive. Editorials will be added, substantive will stay as open PR.
[2021-05-11T16:15:48.888Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	q?
[2021-05-11T16:15:49.868Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	wayne: ... We will call for feedback from community and ask people to meet two mondays from now.
[2021-05-11T16:16:59.352Z]	<brent>	q+
[2021-05-11T16:17:02.414Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	...: Roadmap for 2021 :
* editorial V 1.1
* Substantive v1.2
* Start planning VC v1.2
* fix v1 of spec -- some pain points include updating context, still open for discussion
[2021-05-11T16:17:02.760Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	ack brent
[2021-05-11T16:18:22.985Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	brent: Thanks for what you said. We are unforunately limited due to scope of maintenance work, we can only focus on mistakes. It doesnt mean we can only do editorial fixes, we can do substantive changes but they are only going to be bug fixes. This doesnt mean work for v2 is on hold, please raise issues so we can have discussion it will automatically rolled into future versions
[2021-05-11T16:18:25.442Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	q?
[2021-05-11T16:18:36.980Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	wayne: thanks for additional context. any more comments?
[2021-05-11T16:18:51.681Z]	<heathervescent>	Topic: IIW Recap Discussion
[2021-05-11T16:19:07.328Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	wayne: moving on to discussion on IIW, now that people have had time to reflect are there any topics people wnat to discuss?
[2021-05-11T16:19:14.306Z]	<agropper_>	q+
[2021-05-11T16:19:15.196Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	q+
[2021-05-11T16:19:21.472Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	ack agropper
[2021-05-11T16:21:04.931Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	Adrian: I tried to look at the conversations at IIW on protocol work, DIF and W3C work, and tehre were many sessions around protocols, my impression was that very little of the work was from the holder perspective for many reasons. All the work appears to be centered around verifier and issuer, attempted to hold a session on third day and wanted to raise issue for the group to discuss, looking forward to hear from peple involved at IIW who are here and what we can do to take care of holders
[2021-05-11T16:21:12.002Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	Wayne: anyone want to provide input?
[2021-05-11T16:21:15.531Z]	<TallTed>	holder not necessarily the subject!  This is VERY important to keep clear in all conversation, especially outside the group!
[2021-05-11T16:21:48.212Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	...: are you willing to give examples of holders which may be different from subject and what those protocols are?
[2021-05-11T16:23:33.207Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	Adrian: the problem i see is that message oriented protocols put the cost of processing on the recipient. To the extent people are using DIDs and sending messages to the hodler and asking t odo things witht the wallet for example, without the ability to delegate or ask for refundable deposit to offset cost of processign we are treating Issuers/Verifiers/Hodlers as sovereigns rather than SSI. I'm looking for ways to deal with this asymmetry by either introducing anti-spam protocols and allow holder to delegate without censorship of issuer/verifier
[2021-05-11T16:23:52.118Z]	<Kayode_Ezike>	present+
[2021-05-11T16:24:33.847Z]	<agropper_>	q+
[2021-05-11T16:25:13.183Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	ack Manu
[2021-05-11T16:25:23.301Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	ack agropper
[2021-05-11T16:25:29.147Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	Manu: I get your conern Adrian and share it. I havent seen that concern manifest itself on any existing protocols so it would help to name names, and show these attack vectors. I dont think any of us want to do that. I think there may be a gap in udnerstanding of what these protocols are trying to do whether CHAPI DIDcomm etc. THe holder in each of those are very much in the center. So i dont understand where is the problem? that would really help me if we can talk about it as an attack vector
[2021-05-11T16:25:52.106Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	q+ to note that delegation in scope
[2021-05-11T16:26:29.118Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	Adrian: for example delegation is not explicitly in scope for any of what you mentioned so unless you give the hodler the  ability to delegate freely to a fiduciary similar to a patient delagating to doctor or an accused to delegate to lawyer, so you really cant be Self Sovereign unless you can delegate
[2021-05-11T16:26:32.544Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	ack manu
[2021-05-11T16:26:48.424Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	Manu: Chapi enables Delegation through ZCAPS so it can be atleast be done in that way.
[2021-05-11T16:26:57.894Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	Adrian: ZCAPS is not a protocol in the same sense
[2021-05-11T16:27:36.661Z]	<mprorock>	+1 vc-http-api from our side as plans for delegation
[2021-05-11T16:27:58.369Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	q?
[2021-05-11T16:27:59.514Z]	<TallTed>	present+
[2021-05-11T16:28:00.340Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	Manu: there are demonstrable systems that do this today. so asserting you cant do it today isnt accurate. there are companies that are planning on supporting delegation and authorization through VC-HTTP-API. Not sure were DIDcomm is I'm not an expert. This discussion is important because theres a communication gap between implementers and rest of community
[2021-05-11T16:28:14.205Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	wayne: Would an implementer of delegation be willing to share their approach?
[2021-05-11T16:28:45.629Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	manu: I can speak but it probably warrants a presentation.
[2021-05-11T16:28:49.371Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	q+
[2021-05-11T16:28:53.879Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	ack Manu
[2021-05-11T16:29:00.246Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	wayne: this might warrant longer discussion but a 2 sentence epxlanation might be nice
[2021-05-11T16:30:14.409Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	Manu: for an imperfect ex. our Issuers/Wallets etc enable delegation by goign to a site and asking for access to an EDV and the site would be able to request a delegation of a portion of your EDV to write to it. 
* you go to site
* site requests delegate access
* site writes to your EDV
[2021-05-11T16:30:55.569Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	...: we have other examples of VC-http-api where you can request delegation for ZCAPS where you invoke a ZCAP agaisnt that api and the api doesnt care if its you who the presenter is
[2021-05-11T16:31:02.886Z]	<mprorock>	for ref https://w3c-ccg.github.io/zcap-ld/
[2021-05-11T16:31:05.045Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	q?
[2021-05-11T16:31:09.216Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	...: thats why its confusing to me when i can see that these protocols already are delegating.
[2021-05-11T16:31:13.941Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	wayne: any other IIW topics?
[2021-05-11T16:31:15.426Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	I will note that all of this is horribly documented :)
[2021-05-11T16:31:30.750Z]	<mprorock>	+1 documentation needs improvement
[2021-05-11T16:31:31.695Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	... and it's only folks working in the code that can see this stuff (easily) working today.
[2021-05-11T16:31:42.141Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	... and even then it's difficult.
[2021-05-11T16:32:25.023Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	wayne: wanted to bring up the explosion of did methods. there are now 94+ with more being registered day by day. Some have misgivigns that this will make resolvers struggle to access all of them. Others thing its good because it allows for a variety of decisions based on usecase. any thoughts?
[2021-05-11T16:32:39.152Z]	<markus_sabadello>	q+
[2021-05-11T16:32:41.638Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	wayne: Markus any thoughts?
[2021-05-11T16:32:45.259Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	ack markus
[2021-05-11T16:33:07.333Z]	<cel>	I count 100 DID methods currently
[2021-05-11T16:33:13.361Z]	<cel>	in did-spec-registries
[2021-05-11T16:34:29.924Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	q+ to note that implementations aren't necessarily streaming in... so, perhaps it's not as bad as we think?
[2021-05-11T16:34:41.690Z]	<mprorock>	just because you can.....
[2021-05-11T16:35:05.277Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	Markus: Universal Resolver is more of a community project where we've had similar disucssions at DIF where its being maintained. As far as this topic is concerned i think people are creating methods when existing methods could be used. The original intention was to support different underlying registreis and systems and i think the rationale should be more robust only when you cant use existing systems. on the other hand i think it enables interop. On another note i dont think you need to support ALL methods and your use case should be able to have its own Trust/Gov frameworks that tell you which methods are acceptable
[2021-05-11T16:35:17.333Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	...: i dont think theres a simple answer to this.
[2021-05-11T16:35:19.172Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	ack manu
[2021-05-11T16:36:43.581Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	Manu: one itneresting test is requesting implementations of registered methods, we've sent out an email asking for implementations to test against the infrastructure. We havent gotten a flood to date, should have a clearer picture in a couple of weeks, to make us understand how driven these spec writers are which should let us know the delta between spec writers and implementers. We may need to raise the bar to what it takes to get into the registry
[2021-05-11T16:36:58.528Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	...: may be too easy to get in as all it needs is conceptual
[2021-05-11T16:37:16.371Z]	<mprorock>	q+ did methods in practical use
[2021-05-11T16:37:18.974Z]	<Orie>	present+
[2021-05-11T16:37:24.355Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	ack mprorock
[2021-05-11T16:37:26.118Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	...: we may come to understand that 60% of methods may not be implemented or that they are actually implementing many of them
[2021-05-11T16:37:29.843Z]	<Orie>	super late to the call, sry.
[2021-05-11T16:37:59.971Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	q?
[2021-05-11T16:38:18.125Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	q+
[2021-05-11T16:38:19.444Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	mike: I think your concerns are well said, on our standpoint we're looking typically looking at our customers/systems and crosschecking with crypto. currently we're supporitng did:key/web and looking toe explor edid:v1
[2021-05-11T16:38:20.970Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	q+
[2021-05-11T16:38:31.125Z]	<Kim>	Q+
[2021-05-11T16:39:01.423Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	ack Wayne_Chang
[2021-05-11T16:39:07.853Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	q+ to ask if "where are things converging, finally?"... "where are things diverging?"
[2021-05-11T16:39:07.902Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	...: activity side should be supported by action there appears to be lots of overlap. Some example thats interesting is securekeys' work on showing categories of systems based onimlementations.
[2021-05-11T16:39:09.118Z]	<Orie>	ledger portability is a lot of complexity, but it can also be the holy grail feature of dids.
[2021-05-11T16:39:31.903Z]	<mprorock>	+1 orie
[2021-05-11T16:39:57.863Z]	<mprorock>	q+ advantages of items like did:web
[2021-05-11T16:40:04.451Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	q?
[2021-05-11T16:40:18.933Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	wayne: i really wanted to +1 on different sources of VC registries and we need to make it interop then we need DID methods to work with other systems. even if theyre in the camp of theres one true method that we need to converge on, I think its going to run into real challenges based on hardware improvements.
[2021-05-11T16:40:21.825Z]	<Orie>	and remember, each did method can pick an unbounded number of potentially non interoperable representations... so its even worse when you add cross representation interop to cross did method interop.
[2021-05-11T16:40:45.952Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	q?
[2021-05-11T16:40:46.038Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	...: looking to improve rubrick to become more testable, like is it able to issue ED25519 key etc.
[2021-05-11T16:40:49.506Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	ack Mahmoud
[2021-05-11T16:41:27.204Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	Mahmoud_Alkhraishi: One thing that has been raised is too many DID methods is a nightmare for developers to get started. What really helped was community members giving a starting point: look at 1, 2, and 3.
[2021-05-11T16:41:43.979Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	Mahmoud_Alkhraishi: How feasible would it be to have "recommended methods" in the spec for new developers to get started.
[2021-05-11T16:41:47.797Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	q?
[2021-05-11T16:41:48.253Z]	<Orie>	1.) did:key, 2.) did:web... 3.) pick a blockchain and representation religion
[2021-05-11T16:41:50.194Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	ack Kim
[2021-05-11T16:41:54.990Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	+1 orie
[2021-05-11T16:41:57.333Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	q+ to address "these are recommended methods" -- sounds like a DIF thing, maybe.
[2021-05-11T16:42:51.173Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	q- manu
[2021-05-11T16:42:54.501Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	q- manu
[2021-05-11T16:44:02.499Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	q?
[2021-05-11T16:44:05.620Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	ack mprorock
[2021-05-11T16:44:06.531Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	Kim: recommending seems out of scope of CCG. im not worried because i think we need to popularize rubrick. We had simple criteria, like cost/opensource/crypto/does it support rotation etc. With those heuristics we reduced it to two/three methods as a way to sift through methods. I realize keeping track is a huge burden so i see the value of the rubrick approach
[2021-05-11T16:44:19.999Z]	<agropper_>	+1 Kim's rubrics
[2021-05-11T16:44:32.984Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	q+ to note we have to stop talking about did:web as one thing until there is a conformance test suite.
[2021-05-11T16:45:17.333Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	ack Manu
[2021-05-11T16:45:20.595Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	mike: DID:WEB was great because it had easy adoption especially on the enterprise side, so when we look at orgs that have gone to great lengths on the cybersecurity aspect of it, it works well and fits great with those orgs.
[2021-05-11T16:45:32.900Z]	<mprorock>	lol, yes
[2021-05-11T16:45:37.896Z]	<heathervescent>	LOL Manu
[2021-05-11T16:46:05.760Z]	<agropper_>	q+
[2021-05-11T16:46:16.920Z]	<mprorock>	that is part of our motivation for that interop profile on the trace side
[2021-05-11T16:46:19.712Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	manu: we need to make DID:WEB a drinking game. we keep talking about it like its one thing but theres huge confusion in marketplace as to what it is. Would love to have a conformance test suite and what features are htey really usuing. like what signing certs etc. everytime people talk about did:Web its ambigiuous
[2021-05-11T16:46:28.553Z]	<rgrant>	also +1 Kim's rubrics
[2021-05-11T16:46:57.625Z]	<Orie>	I wouldn't say protocols re diverging
[2021-05-11T16:46:59.724Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	q?
[2021-05-11T16:47:02.066Z]	<Orie>	q+
[2021-05-11T16:47:04.484Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	ack ag
[2021-05-11T16:47:13.490Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	manu: interested to hear from IIW on whats converging and whats diverging. 
for ex: BBS finally have a selective discolusure scheme. unfortunatly theres many protocols coming up. itneresting to see what other poitns peple found.
[2021-05-11T16:47:50.726Z]	<Orie>	But if did:web takes off, how will we sell expensive blockchain solutions/
[2021-05-11T16:47:55.970Z]	<Orie>	/s :)
[2021-05-11T16:48:29.704Z]	<Kim>	We are using did:web for issuers in DCC deployments. I can talk to that some time.
[2021-05-11T16:48:30.933Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	did:web will never take off unless we have interop with it :)
[2021-05-11T16:48:32.417Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	adrian: i think its incumbent on us as a community to be clear on how DID:web should/could be used as its an essential component of SSI as it has an expectation that the issuer/verifier would be using DID:web for good reason. To me as kim started to allude to we have DID:key and DID:web which appear very obvious and then we have everything else. Not sure what Manu meant by drinking game, but if its not a useful framing then we should have that discussion
[2021-05-11T16:48:33.450Z]	<dmitriz>	hahaha Orie - but to be fair, expensive blockchain solutions do provide features & affordances that did:web doesnt :)
[2021-05-11T16:48:34.106Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	ack or
[2021-05-11T16:50:03.958Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	Orie: to provide backround on protocol assertions are diverging, i actually think gheyre converging we know theres OIDF DIF CCG theres some converging happening with CCG and DIF around protocols either by picking from existing communities or make our own. We're in a position now to start embracing leading indicators and helping them break through. This time IIW felt ocllaborative and constructive and it felt good to have didcomm and others to get closer and closer and see a path to unification
[2021-05-11T16:50:11.672Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	..: are you ok wit htraceabliity-interop for repo
[2021-05-11T16:50:14.169Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	q?
[2021-05-11T16:50:15.942Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	Orie: sure
[2021-05-11T16:50:35.009Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	wayne: any other IIW questions? any other topics sessions they wanna disucss?
[2021-05-11T16:50:38.591Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	q+
[2021-05-11T16:50:43.071Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	ack Manu
[2021-05-11T16:50:51.581Z]	<agropper_>	q+
[2021-05-11T16:52:02.908Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	ack agro
[2021-05-11T16:52:03.571Z]	<Orie>	luckily there are the same people working in all of those groups :)
[2021-05-11T16:52:08.355Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	Manu: Whats nagging at me is that i want t obelieve that protocols are converging. typically when you see work happening on multiple different gorups its clear theyre diverging. when different specs pop up and while i want t obelieve everyone has the best intention if groups of people are working on different things its almost guaranteed to diverge in some way. The second you dont have everyone in the same room you have divergence even if it shows up down the line
[2021-05-11T16:52:19.245Z]	<Orie>	including Adrian, myself, etc..
[2021-05-11T16:52:30.777Z]	<Anil_John>	+q to speak to DID Resolvers going forward
[2021-05-11T16:53:48.208Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	Adrian: i want to agree with manu, i dont really see the convergence and dont think all these groups is helpful. IIW: there were 4-8 sessions on Keri/trust frames and alternatives to verifiable data registries of the ilk KERI represents and this seems to have opened up  a different path that isnt based on any ledger, but rathe rits a challenge to side-tree protocols by talking about witnesses notaries etc. and am curious if others noticied this too
[2021-05-11T16:53:51.891Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	q?
[2021-05-11T16:54:52.225Z]	<dmitriz>	heh it is another early thing. but definitely a divergent one :)
[2021-05-11T16:54:57.985Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	Kaliya: IIW is an open forum where agenda is created by people there. I see it as an interesting development but it seems really early that while cool and interesting doesnt really change what is currently being worked on.
[2021-05-11T16:55:04.400Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	q?
[2021-05-11T16:55:06.466Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	ack Anil
[2021-05-11T16:56:53.204Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	q?
[2021-05-11T16:56:54.898Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	Anil: Just going back to earleir conversations about did methnod choices etc. I think one of the underrated aspects is the global resolution capabilities, we're coming to the realization that resolution is a core infra capability where people need to understand and they need to deploy ala DNS servers. the question is if you're going t odo that are tehre test suites that test did resolution capabilities? Would love to have a conversation on resolution's future and how do we know its being done correctly?
[2021-05-11T16:56:57.440Z]	<markus_sabadello>	q+
[2021-05-11T16:56:57.731Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	q+ resolution was supposed to be separate.
[2021-05-11T16:57:01.082Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	...: and conversation on future
[2021-05-11T16:57:04.077Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	q- manu
[2021-05-11T16:57:05.394Z]	<Orie>	did resolution barely made it into did core... and its pretty poorly tested via a data model only approach... we need http/grpc/etc resolution test suite.
[2021-05-11T16:57:06.273Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	ack markus
[2021-05-11T16:58:12.590Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	q?
[2021-05-11T16:58:19.422Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	Markus: In the did working group theres been discussion on resolution and how it fits in and theres been discussions on the boundaries /scope and the result is the DID core does not define concrete protocols but only an abstract interface. therefore test suite does not actually invoke or test implementations but that could be its own test item
[2021-05-11T16:58:21.295Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	q+
[2021-05-11T16:59:20.901Z]	<markus_sabadello>	Work item on DID Resolution exists: https://w3c-ccg.github.io/did-resolution/
[2021-05-11T16:59:26.415Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	wayne: Back to what i was saying about method traits theres been some aspects, theres some implications on your security method whether its did:web or a blockchain based method which puts them into different categories. Would be interested to collab and work on this together
[2021-05-11T16:59:32.666Z]	<agropper_>	q+
[2021-05-11T16:59:36.240Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	ack agr
[2021-05-11T16:59:38.239Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	ack way
[2021-05-11T16:59:40.892Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	...: might be ag reat way to extend current did-resolution work item
[2021-05-11T17:00:16.214Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	adrian: should we be elevating the importance revocation and rubricks when talkign about the did:methods? right now it seems all over the place, maybe justifiable so.
[2021-05-11T17:00:35.782Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	wayne: two important tpoics going forward: 
* delegation
* revocation
[2021-05-11T17:00:38.541Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	wayne; thansk for coming
