[2021-12-14T17:00:31.379Z]	<mprorock>	present+
[2021-12-14T17:00:32.576Z]	<Chris_Abernethy_(mesur.io)>	present+
[2021-12-14T17:00:40.999Z]	<Brent>	present+
[2021-12-14T17:00:47.090Z]	<TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com)>	present+
[2021-12-14T17:00:51.870Z]	<Harrison_Tang>	present+
[2021-12-14T17:00:59.785Z]	<TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com)>	present+
[2021-12-14T17:01:09.133Z]	<nick>	present+
[2021-12-14T17:01:17.326Z]	<brentz>	present+
[2021-12-14T17:01:17.531Z]	<Juan_Caballero_(Spruce)>	present+
[2021-12-14T17:01:25.560Z]	<Eric_Siow>	present+
[2021-12-14T17:01:36.580Z]	<mprorock>	Hey all, just giving folks time to join - several people coming from other meetings
[2021-12-14T17:02:03.708Z]	<Nick_Meyne>	present+
[2021-12-14T17:02:06.094Z]	<Markus_Sabadello>	present+
[2021-12-14T17:02:13.185Z]	<rgrant_(Ryan_Grant)>	present+
[2021-12-14T17:02:39.705Z]	<TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com)>	present+
[2021-12-14T17:02:52.376Z]	<rgrant>	last week i did not have audio.  it appears i don't have audio again.
[2021-12-14T17:02:55.433Z]	<Charles_E._Lehner>	present+
[2021-12-14T17:03:08.010Z]	<Chris_Abernethy_(mesur.io)>	@rgrant same
[2021-12-14T17:03:24.196Z]	<mprorock>	chrome issue depending on version of chrome
[2021-12-14T17:03:33.843Z]	<Dmitri_Z>	present+
[2021-12-14T17:03:34.792Z]	<Juan_Caballero_(Spruce)>	present+
[2021-12-14T17:03:39.115Z]	<IdentityWoman>	present+
[2021-12-14T17:03:53.114Z]	<smagennis>	present+
[2021-12-14T17:04:05.610Z]	<mprorock>	firefox should be working ok on audio
[2021-12-14T17:04:18.402Z]	<Chris_Abernethy_(mesure.io)>	present+
[2021-12-14T17:04:20.291Z]	<Identity_Woman>	present+
[2021-12-14T17:04:21.787Z]	<TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com)>	Jitsi does so many weird things... Anyone with no audio (*not* just in Chrome), try dropping and rejoining a time or three. It took me 3 joins to have Jitsi Meet.app recognize that it had mic, camera, and speaker permissions.
[2021-12-14T17:04:21.790Z]	<juan-testing-another-0browser>	present+
[2021-12-14T17:04:24.340Z]	<Leo>	present+
[2021-12-14T17:05:02.294Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	present+
[2021-12-14T17:05:09.731Z]	<mprorock>	https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-credentials/2021Dec/0053.html
[2021-12-14T17:05:49.806Z]	<Matthias_Gottlieb>	present+
[2021-12-14T17:06:02.671Z]	<Juan_Caballero_(Spruce)>	present+
[2021-12-14T17:06:05.122Z]	<rgrant>	present+
[2021-12-14T17:06:46.121Z]	<Matthias_Gottlieb>	present+
[2021-12-14T17:07:08.004Z]	<Harrison_Tang>	anyone spoke yet?  or am i having an audio issue?
[2021-12-14T17:07:13.952Z]	<mprorock>	https://www.w3.org/community/credentials/join
[2021-12-14T17:07:26.447Z]	<FNf40277a938deec50d1cf7f21fb932e5a>	present+
[2021-12-14T17:07:30.109Z]	<Marty_Reed>	present+
[2021-12-14T17:07:35.493Z]	<brentz>	there are a few folks having audio issues
[2021-12-14T17:07:36.366Z]	<Mahmoud>	present+
[2021-12-14T17:07:40.531Z]	<mprorock>	Harrison - some jitsi issues with audio
[2021-12-14T17:07:45.801Z]	<rgrant_(Ryan_Grant)>	present+
[2021-12-14T17:07:55.066Z]	<identitywoman>	present+
[2021-12-14T17:07:59.838Z]	<identitywoman>	You have to not use chrome
[2021-12-14T17:08:01.410Z]	<Chris_Abernethy_(mesur.io)>	present+
[2021-12-14T17:08:12.602Z]	<Harrison_Tang>	present+
[2021-12-14T17:08:13.571Z]	<Juan_Caballero_(Spruce)>	you're good
[2021-12-14T17:08:13.968Z]	<mprorock>	reccommend trying Firefox
[2021-12-14T17:08:14.127Z]	<identitywoman>	I can hear you
[2021-12-14T17:08:17.220Z]	<Marty_Reed>	yes
[2021-12-14T17:08:17.510Z]	<Mahmoud>	present+
[2021-12-14T17:08:17.726Z]	<Juan_Caballero_(Spruce)>	now that i am off chrome
[2021-12-14T17:08:37.563Z]	<Juan_Caballero_(Spruce)>	sure
[2021-12-14T17:08:53.981Z]	<Mahmoud>	present+
[2021-12-14T17:09:02.290Z]	<rgrant>	Chris_Abernethy_(mesur.io):  US phone: +1 602 932 2243 x1
[2021-12-14T17:09:03.371Z]	<juancaballero>	scribe+
[2021-12-14T17:09:17.934Z]	<juancaballero>	Mike: introductions and re
[2021-12-14T17:09:34.287Z]	<juancaballero>	.... Announcements
[2021-12-14T17:09:39.896Z]	<juancaballero>	q+
[2021-12-14T17:10:01.723Z]	<juancaballero>	mike: last meeting of the year
[2021-12-14T17:10:19.703Z]	<Harrison_Tang>	present+
[2021-12-14T17:10:27.413Z]	<juancaballero>	q-
[2021-12-14T17:10:52.403Z]	<rgrant>	q+ to add topic ask for pointers to Jitsi infrastructure repository
[2021-12-14T17:10:56.335Z]	<juancaballero>	scribe aside: was just going to announce that this week did-pkh IS meeting and apologies to TalLTed for not getting it into the CCG calendar sooner
[2021-12-14T17:10:59.544Z]	<juancaballero>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/did-pkh/blob/main/did-pkh-method-draft.md
[2021-12-14T17:11:21.812Z]	<juancaballero>	brent: update from did-core wg and w3c ac
[2021-12-14T17:11:37.355Z]	<Orie>	present+
[2021-12-14T17:11:49.779Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	present+
[2021-12-14T17:11:53.667Z]	<Orie>	is there audio?
[2021-12-14T17:12:02.682Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	present+
[2021-12-14T17:12:12.865Z]	<mprorock>	audio issue in chrome at a minimum - Firefox appears to be working
[2021-12-14T17:12:40.541Z]	<Orie>	present+
[2021-12-14T17:12:44.129Z]	<juancaballero>	brent: director has stepped down at a time and now the W3C is transitioning to a directorless, more autonomous org
[2021-12-14T17:13:12.834Z]	<mprorock>	q?
[2021-12-14T17:13:16.977Z]	<Harrison_Tang>	present+
[2021-12-14T17:13:24.304Z]	<juancaballero>	... leaving the advisory board and TAG to form an advisory COUNCIL that will advise on this issue
[2021-12-14T17:13:26.898Z]	<Kayode_Ezike>	present+
[2021-12-14T17:13:54.664Z]	<mprorock>	@rgrant - i think manu has the best set of links re jitsi
[2021-12-14T17:13:57.867Z]	<juancaballero>	... and latest communications are saying hopefully by feb there will be an AC formed and ready to advise
[2021-12-14T17:14:13.110Z]	<manu>	q+ to add to some other options on DID Core FOs.
[2021-12-14T17:15:03.861Z]	<manu>	q+ on jitsi upgrades over holidays.
[2021-12-14T17:15:13.114Z]	<mprorock>	ack rgrant
[2021-12-14T17:15:18.023Z]	<mprorock>	ack manu
[2021-12-14T17:15:20.288Z]	<mprorock>	q?
[2021-12-14T17:16:02.063Z]	<juancaballero>	manu: postscript: W3C recommendation debate is not confidential or members-only, we're allowed to discuss with nonmembers
[2021-12-14T17:16:34.322Z]	<juancaballero>	... the "nuclear option" of a flat vote/plebiscite is being floated
[2021-12-14T17:17:32.706Z]	<JeffO-StL>	present+
[2021-12-14T17:17:42.100Z]	<juancaballero>	... and allegations of bad faith are leading some to consider a plebiscite poll or in parallel to the AC process; the director's opinion could be seen as just 1 of 3 inputs
[2021-12-14T17:18:12.147Z]	<econnell>	present+
[2021-12-14T17:18:16.587Z]	<juancaballero>	... and could be put in a sealed envelope while the other 2 come in; formal objection council is a 2nd, 3rd is advisory council (reps 400+ companies)
[2021-12-14T17:19:12.636Z]	<juancaballero>	... parallelizing these three inquests is definitely possible; someone, any member, could propose this in AC,
[2021-12-14T17:19:53.989Z]	<manu>	+1 on arguments seem to be being made in good faith.
[2021-12-14T17:20:09.721Z]	<manu>	q?
[2021-12-14T17:20:18.535Z]	<manu>	q-
[2021-12-14T17:20:25.365Z]	<juancaballero>	mike: I just want to reiterate that many observers, myself included, see no evidence of bad-faith argumentation; conversation sometimes rabbitholes down unproductive side-topics but on the main/net seem to be driven by good-faith positions
[2021-12-14T17:22:09.370Z]	<juancaballero>	Topic: Main event, guest Eric Siow from Intell
[2021-12-14T17:23:13.053Z]	<juancaballero>	ESiow: I want to give an overview of W3C and its history and future
[2021-12-14T17:23:31.371Z]	<juancaballero>	... I have joined Advisory Board and have helped in particular with financial planning and long view
[2021-12-14T17:23:50.988Z]	<juancaballero>	... and I want to emphasize I'm speaking from a personal perspective and not representing the org I am giving my interpretation about
[2021-12-14T17:24:41.814Z]	<juancaballero>	... When Tim founded the w3c it was a very different world; it's not a baby any more.  Tim has not been very active in the org for many years now
[2021-12-14T17:25:04.836Z]	<rgrant_(mozilla_test)>	present+
[2021-12-14T17:25:55.895Z]	<juancaballero>	... W3C is not a single legal entity, actually; in each country, you are not writing checks to W3C when you pay dues, but to stewards (mostly universities); the W3C staff technically work for those orgs
[2021-12-14T17:26:39.551Z]	<juancaballero>	... There are four different sets of books, four different fiscal years, etc; making W3C function as a single org across this underlying organizational federation has been a real challenge.
[2021-12-14T17:27:21.451Z]	<juancaballero>	... Similarly, we aren't really one community.  Each member and sub-community is driven by different business urgencies and organized around different shared values
[2021-12-14T17:27:34.936Z]	<juancaballero>	... the Centralized/decentralized stress fracture within the membership is causing me a lot of concern
[2021-12-14T17:28:41.329Z]	<juancaballero>	... I am more concerned about how we make community-wide decisions without a director than I am about this particular decision
[2021-12-14T17:29:29.564Z]	<juancaballero>	... Borrowing from judicial governance, I think we are trying to figure out what the "law of the land" is here, and bracket member agendas and feelings (and sub-community values) as much as possible
[2021-12-14T17:29:53.144Z]	<juancaballero>	... the difficulty here is in finding shared the principles and framing that can be the most objective
[2021-12-14T17:30:36.715Z]	<juancaballero>	... the council has to be consistent here and base its decisions squarely on principles
[2021-12-14T17:31:56.722Z]	<mprorock>	q?
[2021-12-14T17:32:17.597Z]	<juancaballero>	... Stepping back a little, though, there is also a real question of innovation here; how the principles can reflect a changing membership and its fissures and divergence of values
[2021-12-14T17:33:37.075Z]	<juancaballero>	... When I first joined, David Singer from Apple worked closely with me to find a model for fundraising and organizational restructuring that would keep the AC objective and with all the same member rights (voting on specs, etc)
[2021-12-14T17:34:39.013Z]	<juancaballero>	... but creating a sponsorship mechanism with a few additional privileges has created a lasting misinterpretation that W3C is a "pay to play" organization
[2021-12-14T17:35:28.310Z]	<juancaballero>	... We need to make clear that the Board handles (and ONLY handles) management of finance, oversight, and high-level org'z'l , HR, and strategic issues, nothing that touches specification
[2021-12-14T17:36:46.393Z]	<David_Lehn>	present+
[2021-12-14T17:37:09.220Z]	<David_Lehn>	present+
[2021-12-14T17:37:17.818Z]	<juancaballero>	... for ex., if Intel is going to step up, i would need to go to my management and explain what we get out of sponsorship versus the 77K/yr we already pay for membership
[2021-12-14T17:37:35.584Z]	<David_Lehn>	present+
[2021-12-14T17:37:52.545Z]	<juancaballero>	... and that's a hard sell, since it gives no additional benefit on the standardization work, only financial oversight/stewardship of the org
[2021-12-14T17:38:25.142Z]	<David_Lehn>	present+
[2021-12-14T17:38:35.430Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	Wow, yeah, that is really sad to state it that way, W3C is living hand to mouth.
[2021-12-14T17:38:40.046Z]	<juancaballero>	... and the W3C is still living hand to mouth after all these years; in the last major stock market downturn, w3c had to get bailed out by the internet society. the problem isn't no money, it's no structural resilience
[2021-12-14T17:39:08.255Z]	<Michael_Herman_(Trusted_Digital_Web)>	present+
[2021-12-14T17:39:11.534Z]	<juancaballero>	... and we made a commitment to the internet society to implement some structural changes
[2021-12-14T17:41:01.297Z]	<juancaballero>	... the model of sponsors stepping up and "spinning up" an autonomous org (leaving behind the host orgs) hasn't really panned out; it's looking like sticking to the four-hosts model is safer, and more in line with the expectations of the internet society
[2021-12-14T17:41:40.920Z]	<Markus_Sabadello>	present+
[2021-12-14T17:41:54.621Z]	<juancaballero>	... in my past, i've raised a lot of money, and I really don't think that's the biggest issue here; politics is making it hard here, it's all quite complicated
[2021-12-14T17:42:22.487Z]	<juancaballero>	... i am very worried that it will be too hard to inspire confidence and cement commitments from these sponsors
[2021-12-14T17:42:46.933Z]	<juancaballero>	... because the governance and politics make it nebulous and uncertain from their point of view
[2021-12-14T17:42:47.460Z]	<Orie>	Thank you Eric!
[2021-12-14T17:43:10.295Z]	<brentz>	what a great presentation, thank you.
[2021-12-14T17:43:12.507Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	q+
[2021-12-14T17:43:27.211Z]	<rgrant>	q+ to ask about a shift from informal/cooperative AC member votes, in FOs, to adversarial due process (rules of evidence, outline of topics like a court brief)
[2021-12-14T17:43:37.093Z]	<mprorock>	ack Heather
[2021-12-14T17:43:46.252Z]	<juancaballero>	Mike: Thanks for this presentation, it's very timely as people
[2021-12-14T17:44:01.180Z]	<juancaballero>	... are lately a little unclear on what the best home is for certain work that spans many domains
[2021-12-14T17:44:04.192Z]	<smagennis>	if the politics / funding fails - IYO what then?
[2021-12-14T17:44:26.646Z]	<juancaballero>	Heather: Thanks for this presentation, and I share your concern for the organizational issues
[2021-12-14T17:44:28.240Z]	<rgrant_(Ryan_Grant)>	present+
[2021-12-14T17:45:41.104Z]	<juancaballero>	... how do we get more perspectives into the W3C that help the organizational issues
[2021-12-14T17:45:56.773Z]	<juancaballero>	... and reduce unintended consequences
[2021-12-14T17:46:11.114Z]	<mprorock>	well stated heather
[2021-12-14T17:46:17.305Z]	<mprorock>	q?
[2021-12-14T17:47:01.331Z]	<Nick_Meyne>	q+ Have you considered alternative legal forms?  e.g a multi-stakeholder co-operative with a broad base?
[2021-12-14T17:47:56.226Z]	<juancaballero>	ESiow: Before my 15 years at intell, i worked over 2 decades in banking and finance and consortium-governance
[2021-12-14T17:49:17.139Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	I love this Eric.
[2021-12-14T17:49:20.834Z]	<juancaballero>	... I am not an engineer, and I have been working both in Intel and at W3C to align incentives and business cases to build consortia and collaborations that are reasonably stable and built on firm commitments to rollouts and production timelines
[2021-12-14T17:50:23.493Z]	<juancaballero>	... we are having a harder time with the commitments and the definition of success than the R&D; i want the W3M to set fewer goals and hit more of them
[2021-12-14T17:50:47.091Z]	<mprorock>	q?
[2021-12-14T17:51:54.148Z]	<juancaballero>	... There are many ways to foster these kinds of conversations
[2021-12-14T17:52:02.764Z]	<mprorock>	+1 WOT
[2021-12-14T17:52:36.310Z]	<Orie>	yes, +1 to WOT
[2021-12-14T17:52:41.077Z]	<identitywoman>	surveillance city more like it
[2021-12-14T17:53:00.760Z]	<Orie>	its called "improving user experience" when it happens in a browser ; )
[2021-12-14T17:53:17.776Z]	<juancaballero>	... I've been working with a brilliant engineer at Intel from the Web of Things group, which includes Siemens and W3M, to hone a scope that can be effective in researching what specs would be adopted if written by this kind of group
[2021-12-14T17:53:19.539Z]	<mprorock>	lol @orie
[2021-12-14T17:53:54.851Z]	<TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com)>	surveillance is potential WOT downside. but if it's my house of things that are keeping *me* up to date on their status, like fire alarm going off, like fuel tank empty, like water pressure lost... those are potential WOT upsides
[2021-12-14T17:54:09.572Z]	<juancaballero>	... starting from more centralized states and governments that have the kind of city governance that could commit long-term and participate in the design process that drives specification
[2021-12-14T17:55:40.081Z]	<juancaballero>	... but back to the question of how to foster good conversations, i think it's a combo of bottoms-up (from engineers and product leaders) and top-down (from the advisory board and W3C leadership)
[2021-12-14T17:55:50.676Z]	<mprorock>	ack rgrant
[2021-12-14T17:56:08.819Z]	<mprorock>	q?
[2021-12-14T17:57:12.435Z]	<juancaballero>	rgrant: WRT the FO process, I think it's an open question how much process is appropriate when moving away from director-focused processes
[2021-12-14T17:58:10.066Z]	<juancaballero>	... I can't find the link but I remember reading somewhere that the process shouldn't be too adversarial or formalized/legalistic, yet I see pros and cons to both ends of this spectrum and i'm curious to hear more about that
[2021-12-14T17:59:16.400Z]	<rgrant>	my question is not about specific principles, but due process.
[2021-12-14T17:59:26.388Z]	<juancaballero>	ESiow: Maybe I should caveat my earlier analogy to legal processes; I don't think a principles-based process necessarily needs to be a legalistic or philosophical debate; the principles should serve as guidelines
[2021-12-14T17:59:56.314Z]	<juancaballero>	... a recent question was whether a stance on global warming is a consistent principle; i'd like to see a minimization of conflicts being elevated to the AC
[2021-12-14T18:00:39.940Z]	<juancaballero>	rgrant: are you saying that people need to talk more and earlier so that less things end in FOs?
[2021-12-14T18:00:56.569Z]	<rgrant>	juancaballero: no i'm not saying that.  i'm hearing that
[2021-12-14T18:01:22.889Z]	<juancaballero>	ESiow: Yes, but that earlier talk wouldn't prevent FOs unless there were agreed upon principles
[2021-12-14T18:01:35.464Z]	<mprorock>	q?
[2021-12-14T18:01:42.842Z]	<mprorock>	ack Nick
[2021-12-14T18:02:03.059Z]	<Matthias_Gottlieb>	Have a follow-up call, thanks for the presentation.
[2021-12-14T18:02:41.344Z]	<juancaballero>	Nick_Meyne: Coming from a background in multi-stakeholder cooperative; is that kind of org a possible fit for W3C?
[2021-12-14T18:03:05.420Z]	<juancaballero>	ESiow: I have looked at that, for fundraising and otherwise;
[2021-12-14T18:03:31.193Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	Thank you Eric. This was a great session. Thanks also to Mike for setting it up!
[2021-12-14T18:03:52.725Z]	<juancaballero>	... one way of raising more money is just to raise fees, for ex.; the logical pushback was that doubling fees would greatly reduce number of members, possibly enough to nullify the additional revenue;
[2021-12-14T18:04:30.782Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	Thanks all, I have another call. Really great session.
[2021-12-14T18:04:47.844Z]	<juancaballero>	... moving to a more co-op structure might have good consequences in the long term, but it wouldn't help our more immediate problems, which include gaining confidence from the sponsors
[2021-12-14T18:04:49.252Z]	<mprorock>	thanks heather!
[2021-12-14T18:06:21.566Z]	<juancaballero>	Mike: Thanks for this, and important to note that many of the most active members of this CG are startups that are grateful for the wide memberhsip base and low fees compared to other standardization orgs
[2021-12-14T18:06:25.624Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	Thank you Eric, for the candor and your perceptions about prioritizing core issues the W3C needs to address.
[2021-12-14T18:07:06.348Z]	<juancaballero>	ESiow: Intel is not a browser vendor, our strategic goal is to preserve a broad-based org where everyone can meet
[2021-12-14T18:07:27.871Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	Happy holidays everyone!
[2021-12-14T18:07:41.331Z]	<juancaballero>	Mike: Thanks all, we'll see everyone next year!
[2021-12-14T18:07:41.670Z]	<cel>	happy holidays
[2021-12-14T18:07:43.689Z]	<Nick_Meyne>	Thank you!!