[2021-01-18T16:00:00.000Z]	<kimhd>	Agenda: https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-credentials/2021Jan/0042.html
[2021-01-18T16:00:00.000Z]	<kimhd>	Topic: VC-EDU Work Plan for Q1 2021, cont’d
[2021-01-18T16:00:00.000Z]	<kimhd>	Link: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1oxez8ykQZm5uWAZ8KTDJvAh8P93_YLrzrqKuLM4PTL4/edit?ts=5ff5c040
[2021-01-18T16:00:00.000Z]	<kimhd>	Reviewed changes and approved
[2021-01-18T16:00:00.000Z]	<kimhd>	Topic: Github issue templates
[2021-01-18T16:00:00.000Z]	<kimhd>	Reviewed and approved
[2021-01-18T16:00:00.000Z]	<kimhd>	Action: Kerri, Phil, Anthony, and Kim to collaborate on issue tags/labels for sorting
[2021-01-18T16:00:00.000Z]	<kimhd>	present+ adamjlemmon, dward, JimKelly, Maarten, niaz, javaservlets, jameschartrand, stuartf, Simone_Ravaioli, Kerri_Lemoie, Jacksón, matt_lisle, keith_kowal, juan_caballero, jerry_ma, victoria_feng, keith_kowal, kimhd, AnthonyFCamilleri, Phil-T3, Timothy_Ruff, andres_olave
