[2021-04-13T16:00:02.135Z]	<mprorock>	present+
[2021-04-13T16:00:09.374Z]	<ivan>	present+
[2021-04-13T16:00:15.820Z]	<Jack_Tanner_(Gimly)>	Hi everyone
[2021-04-13T16:00:20.122Z]	<Orie>	yep
[2021-04-13T16:00:52.301Z]	<Orie_>	present+
[2021-04-13T16:00:58.085Z]	<rhiaro>	present+
[2021-04-13T16:01:05.584Z]	<heathervescent>	Scribe: pete_M
[2021-04-13T16:01:07.076Z]	<cel>	present+
[2021-04-13T16:01:10.367Z]	<pete_M>	present+
[2021-04-13T16:01:16.208Z]	<heathervescent>	Agenda: https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-credentials/2021Apr/0099.html
[2021-04-13T16:01:21.574Z]	<George_Lund_(GDS)>	present+
[2021-04-13T16:01:48.022Z]	<markus_sabadello>	present+
[2021-04-13T16:02:30.058Z]	<pete_M>	heathervescent: welcome to CCG meeting 4/13, we will start linked-data sigs, CCG 101, and several proposed work items:
[2021-04-13T16:03:06.417Z]	<pete_M>	heathervescent: Topic: IP Note
[2021-04-13T16:03:11.501Z]	<agropper_>	present+
[2021-04-13T16:03:29.758Z]	<heathervescent>	Join the XXG: https://www.w3.org/community/credentials/join
[2021-04-13T16:03:49.446Z]	<heathervescent>	Meeting: https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/
[2021-04-13T16:04:16.167Z]	<heathervescent>	IRC: http://irc.w3.org/?channels=ccg
[2021-04-13T16:04:20.579Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	present+
[2021-04-13T16:04:30.153Z]	<heathervescent>	present+
[2021-04-13T16:04:35.474Z]	<Caspar_Roelofs_(Gimly)>	present+
[2021-04-13T16:04:41.644Z]	<Jack_Tanner_(Gimly)>	present+
[2021-04-13T16:04:48.115Z]	<JoeAndrieu>	present+
[2021-04-13T16:04:52.871Z]	<Matthieu_CollÃ©>	present+
[2021-04-13T16:04:55.317Z]	<Julien_Fraichot>	present+
[2021-04-13T16:05:01.764Z]	<pchampin>	Pierre-Antoine Champin present+
[2021-04-13T16:05:07.360Z]	<Robert_Long>	present+
[2021-04-13T16:05:25.401Z]	<pete_M>	heathervescent: Topic: Introductions & Reintroductions
[2021-04-13T16:05:36.406Z]	<heathervescent>	q?
[2021-04-13T16:05:37.666Z]	<pchampin>	q+
[2021-04-13T16:05:43.965Z]	<rgrant>	present+
[2021-04-13T16:05:50.143Z]	<heathervescent>	q?
[2021-04-13T16:06:15.493Z]	<heathervescent>	ack pchampin
[2021-04-13T16:06:15.959Z]	<Jack_Tanner_(Gimly)>	q+
[2021-04-13T16:06:35.330Z]	<Caspar_Roelofs_(Gimly)>	Q+
[2021-04-13T16:06:42.205Z]	<heathervescent>	q?
[2021-04-13T16:06:50.437Z]	<Robert_Long>	q+
[2021-04-13T16:07:13.112Z]	<pete_M>	pchampin: new to VC groups, interested in JSON-LD, I'm a professor and W3 member
[2021-04-13T16:07:30.408Z]	<heathervescent>	ack Jack_Tanner_(Gimly)
[2021-04-13T16:07:49.834Z]	<pete_M>	Jack_Tanner_(Gimly): Hi, I'm Jack Tanner, here for new spec discussion
[2021-04-13T16:07:52.410Z]	<heathervescent>	ack Casper_Roelofs_(Gimly)
[2021-04-13T16:08:14.463Z]	<pete_M>	Casper_Roleofs_(Gimly): exited to be here
[2021-04-13T16:08:17.801Z]	<heathervescent>	ack Caspar_Roelofs_(Gimly)
[2021-04-13T16:08:28.042Z]	<heathervescent>	ack Robert_Long
[2021-04-13T16:08:30.688Z]	<heathervescent>	q?
[2021-04-13T16:09:03.400Z]	<pete_M>	Robert_Long: also glad to be here
[2021-04-13T16:09:43.574Z]	<Robert_Long>	Having some issues hearing certain people in Firefox.
[2021-04-13T16:09:52.062Z]	<pete_M>	heathervescent: q? - brings up queue / q+ - joins the queue / q- - leaves the queue
[2021-04-13T16:10:39.972Z]	<pete_M>	heathervescent: any Re-Introductions?
[2021-04-13T16:11:05.445Z]	<pete_M>	Topic: Announcements & ReIntroductions
[2021-04-13T16:11:15.242Z]	<heathervescent>	Announcement & reminders: https://w3c-ccg.github.io/announcements/
[2021-04-13T16:11:33.522Z]	<pete_M>	heathervescent: anyone want to speak to IIW?
[2021-04-13T16:11:45.267Z]	<Caspar_Roelofs_(Gimly)>	q+
[2021-04-13T16:11:55.331Z]	<pete_M>	Juan_Caballero: heres the link
[2021-04-13T16:12:02.898Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	https://internetidentityworkshop.com/
[2021-04-13T16:12:04.157Z]	<pete_M>	Topic: Work Item: Verifiable Condition
[2021-04-13T16:12:18.883Z]	<heathervescent>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/community/issues/188
[2021-04-13T16:12:25.068Z]	<pete_M>	... thanks to Jack Tanner, heres the floor
[2021-04-13T16:12:34.796Z]	<Caspar_Roelofs_(Gimly)>	q-
[2021-04-13T16:12:37.794Z]	<Kimhd>	present+ 
[2021-04-13T16:12:37.723Z]	<Kimberly_Linson>	present+ 
[2021-04-13T16:12:37.931Z]	<heathervescent>	Verification Methods New Work Item Proposal: https://github.com/w3c-ccg/community/issues/188
[2021-04-13T16:12:49.009Z]	<Kimhd>	Hi everyone, welcome back to the normal time!
[2021-04-13T16:13:07.550Z]	<pete_M>	Jack_Tanner: current Verification methods have one key, this new type allows for multi signatures
[2021-04-13T16:13:47.501Z]	<Orie_>	big +1 to the work item
[2021-04-13T16:13:49.104Z]	<pete_M>	... a new proposed verification method, also a way to show relationships between DID methods. More sophistication for secure identities
[2021-04-13T16:13:50.320Z]	<Orie_>	very much needed
[2021-04-13T16:13:52.773Z]	<manu>	q+
[2021-04-13T16:13:53.518Z]	<markus_sabadello>	q+
[2021-04-13T16:14:38.887Z]	<pete_M>	... welcoming any comments or questions. Lastly, this verification method type should support several Key Infrastructures and more advanced DIDs
[2021-04-13T16:14:51.122Z]	<rgrant>	q+ does this type help support multisig within a given method?
[2021-04-13T16:14:54.295Z]	<econnell>	present+
[2021-04-13T16:15:05.373Z]	<Kayode_Ezike>	present+
[2021-04-13T16:15:05.530Z]	<pete_M>	kimhd: hey guys, Heather's computer crashed, I'm taking over for now
[2021-04-13T16:15:05.738Z]	<Kimhd>	ack manu
[2021-04-13T16:15:10.554Z]	<pete_M>	... manu youre up in the Q
[2021-04-13T16:15:14.262Z]	<heathervescent_>	All - my system crashed, give me a moment to restart
[2021-04-13T16:15:34.349Z]	<pete_M>	manu: there are a number of things I've been commenting on
[2021-04-13T16:15:53.917Z]	<Kimhd>	q?
[2021-04-13T16:16:16.409Z]	<heathervescent>	All - I'm back. Thanks Kimhd for filling in.
[2021-04-13T16:16:49.744Z]	<pete_M>	Jack_Tanner: the design is intentionally recursive
[2021-04-13T16:16:57.506Z]	<heathervescent_>	q?
[2021-04-13T16:17:51.800Z]	<pete_M>	... there are a few other considerations to subtypes not in this work proposal
[2021-04-13T16:18:22.399Z]	<pete_M>	... some might lead to security concerns, and we didn't have clear use cases
[2021-04-13T16:18:46.794Z]	<heathervescent>	ack markus_sabadello
[2021-04-13T16:19:02.060Z]	<pete_M>	markus_sabadello: +1 to work item
[2021-04-13T16:19:33.156Z]	<heathervescent>	ack rgrant
[2021-04-13T16:19:39.224Z]	<pete_M>	... also generally interested in new and creative verification methods. This seems generally applicable
[2021-04-13T16:20:15.557Z]	<pete_M>	rgrant: one question i have is: is this a signature scheme or a DID method? What exactly is it?
[2021-04-13T16:21:05.855Z]	<Orie_>	q+ to note that did methods don't always express their VDR constraints
[2021-04-13T16:21:08.754Z]	<heathervescent>	q?
[2021-04-13T16:21:08.793Z]	<pete_M>	Jack_Tanner: this will specify specific conditions on how to fill a verification method
[2021-04-13T16:21:30.326Z]	<TallTed>	present+
[2021-04-13T16:21:49.468Z]	<pete_M>	... this will be on the verification method array, and also on the verification-method property
[2021-04-13T16:21:53.554Z]	<heathervescent>	ack Orie_
[2021-04-13T16:22:28.346Z]	<pete_M>	Orie_: just a note, not all DID methods expose security in the documentation
[2021-04-13T16:23:12.278Z]	<markus_sabadello>	q+
[2021-04-13T16:23:35.155Z]	<rgrant>	Orie_: that was helpful
[2021-04-13T16:23:58.756Z]	<pete_M>	Jack_Tanner: this would allow to check for verifiable credential fulfillment
[2021-04-13T16:24:18.513Z]	<heathervescent>	ack markus_sabadello
[2021-04-13T16:24:23.066Z]	<pete_M>	... it has function higher up in the SSI chain
[2021-04-13T16:25:10.031Z]	<pete_M>	markus_sabadello: verification methods dont have to be based on cryptographic signatures
[2021-04-13T16:25:44.885Z]	<pete_M>	... this method combines other verification methods without concern for what they are
[2021-04-13T16:26:00.757Z]	<pete_M>	heathervescent: any comments or objections?
[2021-04-13T16:26:38.941Z]	<pete_M>	... Jack, do you have a repo to transfer over
[2021-04-13T16:26:59.464Z]	<pete_M>	... we can discuss the details after the meeting
[2021-04-13T16:27:22.523Z]	<heathervescent> Topic: Work item: Traceability API	
[2021-04-13T16:27:22.593Z]	<heathervescent> 	Traceability API: https://github.com/w3c-ccg/community/issues/191
[2021-04-13T16:27:22.861Z]	<Orie>	q+_
[2021-04-13T16:27:25.442Z]	<pete_M>	... moving on, Tracability API and general discussion
[2021-04-13T16:27:30.208Z]	<heathervescent>	ack Orie
[2021-04-13T16:28:16.640Z]	<pete_M>	Orie_: Tracability Vocabulary conversation...
[2021-04-13T16:28:18.762Z]	<heathervescent>	Context thread for this request: https://github.com/w3c-ccg/vc-http-api/pull/168
[2021-04-13T16:29:07.554Z]	<pete_M>	... credentials are not being exchanged. We need a new set of "holder" end-points (p2p)
[2021-04-13T16:29:40.841Z]	<pete_M>	... We've been trying to define a usecase scenario for verifiable presentations
[2021-04-13T16:30:24.271Z]	<pete_M>	... this new work item is an opportunity to deal with interoperability
[2021-04-13T16:30:30.288Z]	<heathervescent>	q+
[2021-04-13T16:30:54.600Z]	<pete_M>	... we plan to build on top of CCG specs without breaking them
[2021-04-13T16:31:00.490Z]	<manu>	q+ to provide a different perspective on the Traceability API -- really a Holder API -- concerned that it's a fork and it'll create more work over time
[2021-04-13T16:31:09.163Z]	<pete_M>	... trying to get the API to work across different vendors
[2021-04-13T16:31:26.218Z]	<Troy_Ronda>	Another example of a request for exchange APIs (so these scenarios go beyond supply chain): https://github.com/w3c-ccg/vc-http-api/issues/176
[2021-04-13T16:31:38.643Z]	<Orie>	q+ to reply to concerns regarding the VC HTTP API
[2021-04-13T16:31:54.643Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	q+ to respond to SVIP transparency and work item status
[2021-04-13T16:32:21.523Z]	<heathervescent>	ack heathervescent
[2021-04-13T16:32:27.147Z]	<pete_M>	heathervescent: generally, we need to try and work with a better understanding of the existing work being incorporated
[2021-04-13T16:32:27.327Z]	<heathervescent>	q?
[2021-04-13T16:32:32.661Z]	<heathervescent>	ack manu
[2021-04-13T16:32:49.862Z]	<pete_M>	manu: +1 to heathers comment
[2021-04-13T16:33:35.213Z]	<pete_M>	... the Tracability API seems like a fork to the specification without proper discussion
[2021-04-13T16:34:08.829Z]	<Troy_Ronda>	q+ (would like to see defined back-end APIs for facilitating VC/VP exchange).
[2021-04-13T16:34:11.250Z]	<heathervescent>	q?
[2021-04-13T16:34:28.052Z]	<pete_M>	... it shows we are working, but we should discuss the actions more
[2021-04-13T16:34:33.895Z]	<kimhd>	+1 to Heather and Manu. This move severely compounds my concerns I raised in the vc-http-api PR
[2021-04-13T16:34:54.020Z]	<Orie>	merging from forks is how progress is made
[2021-04-13T16:35:13.915Z]	<heathervescent>	ack Orie
[2021-04-13T16:35:14.512Z]	<TallTed>	+1 fork of not-really-understood/described/discussed thing to even-less-understood/described/discussed thing is premature and likely to lead to less interop, not more
[2021-04-13T16:35:37.608Z]	<heathervescent>	@TallTed, would you like to be on the queue?
[2021-04-13T16:35:47.701Z]	<TallTed>	q+
[2021-04-13T16:35:49.748Z]	<pete_M>	Orie_: i agree with manu about wanting to work
[2021-04-13T16:36:09.762Z]	<manu>	q+ to note, this isn't a fork in the traditional "quick update to spec" sense... this is a fork in a "completely different work item" sense.
[2021-04-13T16:36:16.378Z]	<pete_M>	... there has been long conversation about VC-HTTP-API which has led us here
[2021-04-13T16:36:19.116Z]	<Kimhd>	q+ where have those calls happened? Are they open only to the SVIP cohort?
[2021-04-13T16:36:29.823Z]	<heathervescent>	q+
[2021-04-13T16:36:55.249Z]	<mprorock>	q+
[2021-04-13T16:37:16.799Z]	<pete_M>	... forks should not be seen as anything combative to the general process
[2021-04-13T16:37:43.786Z]	<markus_sabadello>	q+
[2021-04-13T16:37:45.999Z]	<Kimhd>	forks are not combative; the language in the work item is combative (as well as refusal to accept use case feedback)
[2021-04-13T16:38:22.450Z]	<pete_M>	... there's been no consensus on what the Traceability API people have been trying to do
[2021-04-13T16:38:26.371Z]	<manu>	I strongly disagree with what Orie is saying and the way he's presenting the information; what he is saying has not been my experience.
[2021-04-13T16:38:51.398Z]	<TallTed>	repeating the same words again and again is not productive use of time.
[2021-04-13T16:39:01.916Z]	<pete_M>	... progress needs to be made to see if the changes are worthwhile
[2021-04-13T16:39:09.775Z]	<Kimhd>	+1 Heather
[2021-04-13T16:39:15.301Z]	<manu>	+1 Heather
[2021-04-13T16:39:28.086Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	+1 but haven't checked IIW schedule :D
[2021-04-13T16:39:32.004Z]	<Kimhd>	q-
[2021-04-13T16:39:36.433Z]	<Kimhd>	or the week after
[2021-04-13T16:39:42.546Z]	<pete_M>	heathervescent: we might need to move this specific discussion to a more dedicated time/forum
[2021-04-13T16:40:14.954Z]	<pete_M>	Juan_Caballero: there is a call in about an hour with Tracability Vocab folks where we can talk about this
[2021-04-13T16:40:48.972Z]	<manu>	+1 to give it a call
[2021-04-13T16:41:00.335Z]	<manu>	Meet next week anyway
[2021-04-13T16:41:00.718Z]	<Orie>	q+ regarding callss
[2021-04-13T16:41:07.461Z]	<manu>	ack manu
[2021-04-13T16:41:16.626Z]	<pete_M>	heathervescent: thoughts on meeting next week regardless of IIW? Regular time?
[2021-04-13T16:41:24.876Z]	<Kimhd>	+1 to discuss next week at usual time
[2021-04-13T16:41:27.090Z]	<mprorock>	q- yield to orie re call discussion
[2021-04-13T16:41:33.606Z]	<mprorock>	q-
[2021-04-13T16:41:39.013Z]	<pete_M>	... no objections, Kimhd might you be available to moderate next week?
[2021-04-13T16:41:40.799Z]	<markus_sabadello>	q-
[2021-04-13T16:41:50.149Z]	<Troy_Ronda>	It would be good to expand the scope beyond traceability - generically, have HTTP APIs to facilitate exchanges including mediation and links to wallet selection and authorization.
[2021-04-13T16:41:57.586Z]	<heathervescent>	-Juan_Caballero
[2021-04-13T16:42:02.451Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	q+
[2021-04-13T16:42:30.314Z]	<pete_M>	Orie_: i support more time dedicated to this convo, and faster pace working
[2021-04-13T16:42:36.079Z]	<heathervescent>	ack Juan_Caballero
[2021-04-13T16:42:51.380Z]	<heathervescent>	ack Troy_Ronda
[2021-04-13T16:42:52.373Z]	<rgrant>	Orie_: is there a 15m presentation on the traceability that you're working on?
[2021-04-13T16:42:56.083Z]	<heathervescent>	ack TallTed
[2021-04-13T16:42:59.869Z]	<heathervescent>	ack heathervescent
[2021-04-13T16:43:09.884Z]	<TallTed>	q?
[2021-04-13T16:43:16.674Z]	<Orie>	rgrant links are in the propossal
[2021-04-13T16:43:22.333Z]	<Orie>	q-
[2021-04-13T16:43:23.720Z]	<pete_M>	heathervescent: Kimberly_Linson, CCG 101 introduction?
[2021-04-13T16:43:24.767Z]	<heathervescent>	ack Orie
[2021-04-13T16:43:29.553Z]	<heathervescent>	ack Juan_Caballero
[2021-04-13T16:43:45.604Z]	<heathervescent>	Topic: CCG 101 Developer to Developer Intro
[2021-04-13T16:44:15.086Z]	<heathervescent>	Thanks all for your agreement to discuss the work item at a call next week.
[2021-04-13T16:44:15.620Z]	<pete_M>	Kimberly_Linson: lets start with: "Why is there a CCG 101?" We want more people to contribute
[2021-04-13T16:44:48.560Z]	<pete_M>	... working with RANDA Solutions, we are passionate and excited for VCs
[2021-04-13T16:45:28.306Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	juan AND KALIYA'S
[2021-04-13T16:45:41.944Z]	<pete_M>	... personally, I have a 101 level understanding of these conversation topics, and now I need to understand the "next level"
[2021-04-13T16:45:56.465Z]	<pete_M>	... so in the 101 we have discussed how to handle that
[2021-04-13T16:46:29.058Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	medium.com doesn't allow co-author attribution, which is why we need VCs for IP ASAP... ( https://sourcecheck.org )
[2021-04-13T16:46:33.927Z]	<pete_M>	George Lund: i personally want to understand this space outside of profession
[2021-04-13T16:46:49.254Z]	<heathervescent>	q?
[2021-04-13T16:46:56.617Z]	<pete_M>	... lots of people coming into the ecosystem need an understanding of this technical space
[2021-04-13T16:47:08.128Z]	<heathervescent>	q+
[2021-04-13T16:47:18.524Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	CCG101 is more than welcome to bang on the DIF's FAQ working draft here:
https://docs.google.com/document/d/1umHFLN-BbNF4YtDY5PdQMtdGHWKEKzcpLS8C-T4T8pQ/edit#crowd-editing/feedback/re-education session at interop today at 2pm PST / 5pm EST
[2021-04-13T16:47:29.304Z]	<pete_M>	Kimberly_Linson: CCG 101 has identified a few topics we need help with from the CCG group
[2021-04-13T16:47:55.521Z]	<pete_M>	... "What is the path for first-time understanding?"
[2021-04-13T16:48:23.861Z]	<pete_M>	... there should be a collection of quality instruction/explanation
[2021-04-13T16:48:45.336Z]	<pete_M>	... "What does it mean to make a VC?"
[2021-04-13T16:49:24.339Z]	<pete_M>	... can the CCG 101 group see one built to lead us into additional questions?
[2021-04-13T16:49:28.996Z]	<George_Lund_(GDS)>	Just wanted to mention that we've already had great support from CCG members like Manu and Mike Prorock so thanks for that :-)
[2021-04-13T16:50:02.806Z]	<pete_M>	heathervescent: this community is built upon the collection of members/ people work
[2021-04-13T16:50:39.431Z]	<pete_M>	... the CCG group's goal is not to overburden anyone with jargon/ confusion
[2021-04-13T16:50:59.589Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	raw materials that may help CCG101 efforts (sorry I can't contribute directly until 1July) can be found linked here: https://github.com/w3c-ccg/CCG101/issues/3#issuecomment-818887263
[2021-04-13T16:51:44.857Z]	<heathervescent>	q?
[2021-04-13T16:51:49.341Z]	<heathervescent>	ack heathervescent
[2021-04-13T16:51:52.667Z]	<mprorock>	q+
[2021-04-13T16:52:00.120Z]	<pete_M>	... for the community, what feedback on how to proceed with possible Dev2Dev conversations?
[2021-04-13T16:52:00.511Z]	<heathervescent>	ack mprorock
[2021-04-13T16:52:45.871Z]	<rgrant>	Orie_: followed some links, got stuck here: https://github.com/OR13/traceability-api/blob/main/docs/sections/api-spec.html
[2021-04-13T16:52:48.572Z]	<pete_M>	mprorock: I'd be willing to commit some of my time, concerned about having a limited perspective on information
[2021-04-13T16:52:49.215Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	oh and anyone in the group is happy to crash my DIF "office hours" every week, they've been pretty dead lately anyways!
https://bit.ly/dif-calendar
[2021-04-13T16:53:10.036Z]	<Orie_>	rgrant: https://or13.github.io/traceability-api/#api-spec
[2021-04-13T16:53:20.827Z]	<Orie_>	rgrant: https://w3c-ccg.github.io/traceability-vocab/
[2021-04-13T16:53:29.614Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	+100
[2021-04-13T16:53:55.086Z]	<kimhd>	q+
[2021-04-13T16:54:01.467Z]	<heathervescent>	ack kimhd
[2021-04-13T16:54:01.754Z]	<pete_M>	... developing specific parts to this technology keeps my focused on one part of this entire tech
[2021-04-13T16:54:04.924Z]	<Orie_>	+1 to noting that we are all biased
[2021-04-13T16:54:07.033Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	recorded VC-HTTP-API special call sounds like a GREAT format for generating very urgently needed educational support for that project/family of projects
[2021-04-13T16:55:00.894Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	the VC-EDU calls are a PARAGON of transparent, open schema design, fwiw
[2021-04-13T16:55:03.391Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	You can't give people a 2 hour heads up and expect people to be able to shift their schedules around, Juan -- need at least a few days of heads up
[2021-04-13T16:55:13.464Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	that's why I emailed last week
[2021-04-13T16:55:20.152Z]	<mprorock>	+1 building on a body of knowledge
[2021-04-13T16:55:27.850Z]	<heathervescent>	q?
[2021-04-13T16:55:34.216Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	you responded to the email, remember? ;)
[2021-04-13T16:55:37.821Z]	<Orie_>	^
[2021-04-13T16:55:53.199Z]	<pete_M>	kimhd: VCs are difficult to completely understand for anyone new. This attempt to work with the CCG 101 group can be a good move
[2021-04-13T16:56:03.315Z]	<mprorock>	that would be perfect
[2021-04-13T16:56:48.131Z]	<pete_M>	heathervescent: any CCG 101 concerns?
[2021-04-13T16:57:31.330Z]	<pete_M>	... is there time to cover the next topic? Manu?
[2021-04-13T16:57:32.976Z]	<ivan>	q+
[2021-04-13T16:57:39.852Z]	<heathervescent>	ack ivan
[2021-04-13T16:58:38.578Z]	<pete_M>	ivan: theres an issue with losing a week for the work-items discussion. Just mentioning
[2021-04-13T16:59:02.163Z]	<dlongley>	we just scheduled a different agenda item for next week anyway
[2021-04-13T16:59:14.936Z]	<pete_M>	... prior scheduling makes next week difficult
[2021-04-13T16:59:18.534Z]	<dlongley>	(the vc-http-api/traceability stuff)
[2021-04-13T16:59:30.190Z]	<pete_M>	manu: Suggesting Friday, same time?
[2021-04-13T16:59:53.501Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	deep apologies for dragging out the VC-HTTP-API stuff, Ivan and Manu!
[2021-04-13T17:00:08.018Z]	<pete_M>	ivan: can keep on for additional time now to continue discussing
[2021-04-13T17:01:03.712Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	/me ðªpeteðª
[2021-04-13T17:01:03.739Z]	<ivan>	Proposed charter text to read: https://w3c.github.io/lds-wg-charter/
[2021-04-13T17:01:04.440Z]	<pete_M>	manu: Topic: Linked Data Signatures
[2021-04-13T17:01:06.823Z]	<heathervescent>	Topic: Linked Data Signatures Charter 
[2021-04-13T17:01:06.857Z]	<heathervescent>	Linked Data Signatures: https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-credentials/2021Mar/0273.html
[2021-04-13T17:01:07.986Z]	<ivan>	Issues: https://github.com/w3c/lds-wg-charter/issues
[2021-04-13T17:01:53.255Z]	<pete_M>	... in a VC, "proofs" are what we are talking about. Making an offical W3C WG to standardize the "proof" part of a VC
[2021-04-13T17:02:21.073Z]	<pete_M>	... more specifically, <screenshare> the bottom part of a VC
[2021-04-13T17:02:47.523Z]	<pete_M>	... this is not a specifically a VC, this is more commonly datascience
[2021-04-13T17:03:38.100Z]	<pete_M>	... Ivan, thank you for the charter, the floor is yours
[2021-04-13T17:03:56.207Z]	<pete_M>	ivan: the plan is to have a very focused charter
[2021-04-13T17:04:49.255Z]	<pete_M>	... important to understand, this is not solely designed for VC work. This deals with semantic issues also
[2021-04-13T17:05:26.046Z]	<pete_M>	... we would like to organize the charter for the community-at-large, but the VC WG can benefit from the work
[2021-04-13T17:06:23.338Z]	<manu>	https://w3c.github.io/lds-wg-charter/index.html
[2021-04-13T17:06:34.277Z]	<heathervescent_>	q?
[2021-04-13T17:06:37.156Z]	<pete_M>	... process-wise, the charter is a draft and is going through the W3C stages moving forward
[2021-04-13T17:07:10.286Z]	<pete_M>	... maybe early May will have a vote on finalizing
[2021-04-13T17:07:38.692Z]	<pete_M>	... we would need, from this and any other community, comments/feed back on the charter
[2021-04-13T17:07:49.350Z]	<manu>	https://github.com/w3c/lds-wg-charter/issues
[2021-04-13T17:08:23.036Z]	<pete_M>	... it would help to see community interest, the W3C loves seeing this
[2021-04-13T17:08:23.055Z]	<heathervescent>	q+
[2021-04-13T17:08:49.018Z]	<pete_M>	... one last thing, we haven't identified potential WG co-chairs
[2021-04-13T17:09:18.178Z]	<pete_M>	... we would like to have a co-chair from CCG, and one from the larger community
[2021-04-13T17:09:47.136Z]	<markus_sabadello>	q+
[2021-04-13T17:10:24.970Z]	<heathervescent>	ack heathervescent
[2021-04-13T17:10:35.993Z]	<heathervescent>	ack markus_sabadello
[2021-04-13T17:10:54.760Z]	<pete_M>	markus_sabadello: ivan, can you repeat where its best to voice support for the charter/workgroup
[2021-04-13T17:11:13.950Z]	<pete_M>	ivan: as much noise as possible is always good
[2021-04-13T17:11:15.926Z]	<heathervescent>	q?
[2021-04-13T17:11:33.346Z]	<pete_M>	heathervescent: any final questions? comments?
[2021-04-13T17:11:47.364Z]	<pete_M>	... thank you Ivan for pushing for that last conversation
[2021-04-13T17:12:01.508Z]	<pete_M>	... that is the meeting! Thanks to everyone!
