[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> Meeting: 2016 Verifiable Claims Face-to-Face (Day 1)
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> Date: 2016-10-28
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> scribe: manu
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> Agenda: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1uYDRcHs_EOpJzezJerKnKT4Grni1sFLX2nRp7zlq2BE/edit#
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> Topic: Welcome and Administrivia
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> stone: Welcome to the very first Verifiable Claims face to face meeting
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> stone: We're kicking off the Verifiable Claims work before a Working Group is started.
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> stone: We have a couple of days of content, standards process,goals of organization, what we're trying to do - why this is important, etc.
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> stone: Some administration items
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> stone: First, everything is recorded in the public record, you can ask to not be recorded. We want to know everyone who is here, If you have access to chat, state your name, and company.
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> stone: We ask that you use the queue to speak, please keep comments respectful and to the point. Everyone should have an opportunity to chat.
[Thu 00:00:00] <gkellogg> present: gkellogg
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> Matt Stone, Pearson 
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> Gregg Kellogg, Spec Ops - background in Linked Data / RDF 
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> Shane McCarron, Spec Ops - involved w/w W3C
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> David Turner, Voltage Gate
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> David Robert, General Data Protection Regulation
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> Tomas Hnetila, Kerio Technologies
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> John Tibbetts, VitalSource consultant, IMS Global
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> Christopher Allen, Principal Architect at BlockStream, Rebooting Web of Trust
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> James Toozny
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> Scott Fehrman, ForgeRock
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> Chris Webber, W3C Social Web Working Group
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> Scott Fehrman, ForgeRock
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> Andrew Hughes, Kantara - Independent Consultant
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> Jestin Hopkins, Identity.com
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> George Fletcher, AOL identity architect
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> John Fontana, Yubico
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> Phil Hunt, Oracle
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> Dick Hardt, Amazon, OAuth, JWT
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> Jim Pasqual, DigiMe
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> Richard Varn, ETS - co-chair
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> Adrian Gropper, CTO, Patient Privacy Rights - stack called HIE of One
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> Dave Longley, Digital Bazaar
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> Eric Korb, CEO, Truecred - digital credentialing provider
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> Manu Sporny, Digital Bazaar
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> Eric Somerville, Independent, pharma supply chain
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> Heather Vescent, Independent Researcher
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> Karen Marr, Department of Homeland Security
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> Adam Lake, Digital Bazaar
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> Joe Andrieu, First Person, ex-Switchbook
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> Jörg Heuer, Deutche Telekom
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> Natasha Rooney, GSM Association
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> Drummond Reed, Evernym
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> Timothy Ruff, Evernym
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> Jason Law, Evernym
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> Adam Migus, Migus Group
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> Giovanna Mingarelli, MCrowdsourcing Canada
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> Paula Escuadera, Collective Shift - LRNG
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> Robert Bajor, Digital Promise
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> Present+ Kellogg, McCarron, Turner, Robert, Hnetila, Tibbetts, Allen, Toozny, Fehrman, Webber, Fehrman, Hughes, Hopkins, Fletcher, Fontana, Hunt, Hardt, Pasqual, Varn, Andrieu, Gropper, Longley, Korb, Sporny, Somerville, Vescent, Marr, Lake, Heuer, Rooney, Reed, Ruff, Law, Migus, Mingarelli, Escuadera, Bajor, nathang, cameron, simpson
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> Dinner will be at Tide House
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> stone: We're going to try to quickly kick off, motivation for why we're here - opportunity that has come through our social network, roll clock back, always been true - social networks like church, rotary club, you can represent yourself personally in achievements and credentials to get a job, or get experience to have fruitful life.
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> stone: as generations have moved forward, local physical community has become less central to access to opportunity.
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> stone: no relationship like what has existed previously, as digital tech has exploded, they fail to provide this authenticity/veracity of evidence that's necessary to enable workers/citizens to leverage their expertise and pursue opportunities. That's what's motivating us to provide a means for claims to be made in an open and verifiable in a digital marketplace that tears down the barriers that are there in a physical and relationship oriented world.
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> stone: It's a democratization of this type of content that we're after - 
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> Richard: This is a bit education centric, but healthcare is important as well - right opportunities for right reasons - good in healthcare too. We were going to call this credentials, but that led to confusion in security industry... people are looking to us to put strength around what they can document.
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> Richard: There are other industries that are involved in background checks, id proofing, transcripts, prescriptions, etc.
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> Richard: Hiring, student info, LMS, from the evidenciary standpoint, we want to assemble, verify, correlate, infer, and warrant that things are valid. we need a standard for t his.
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> Richard: Without verifiable claims, this whole process becomes very difficult, I've been working on this for 30+ years, and we need this.
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> stone: We need and open standard to recognize and verify credentials and achievements that an individual has earned.
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> stone: We have some high level goals - we need sustainability, portable, verifiable, extensible, secure, privacy enhancing.
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> stone: We don't want more silos, providers own a portfolio of credentials, but they are not 100% of the marketplace, if you are an individual who has earned credentials in two different places to pull it into one place. We want these verifiable claims to pull things together.
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> stone: We've seen many different marketplaces that use different language - you'll hear us talk about claims/credentials interchangeably, we need to represent an achievement about person in a certain way, transfer across systems in a transferable way. Fraud/PII, still provides market to drive content and nature of claim.
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> stone: We want to reduce friction that exists in system today.
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> Hardt: When you say portable, would you want it presentable to anybody, or just a broad range.
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> stone: It's really anybody, one of the reasons we're here is that the currency we have is this self-sovereign identity, we take concept of ownership and put it in hands of individual, primary stakeholder in achievement, we want them to share slices of their identity/achievement and show it about them.
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> Stone: Goal is open standard that anyone can integrate and any individual can use
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> Hardt: There is a difference between open standard and open system.
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> Richard: There are a ton of point to point systems, but when someone publishes we want a portable item.
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> Hardt: Are you building a railway or a highway - highways are harder to build, easier to extend.
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> stone: In terms of Verifiable Claims - our problem statement... it's difficult to represent this information on the Web today, other sorts of info on the Web, difficult across stakeholder that's concerned via Web today. Our mission is to make expressing/exchanging that data interesting and more expressible on the Web.
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> stone: Our scope, with regards to W3C is really focused on identifying data model and how market can enable it to evolve over time and syntaxes that are available to represent that. Will get into details over next few days.
[Thu 00:00:00] <gkellogg> q+ to discuss charter
[Thu 00:00:00] * Zakim sees gkellogg on the speaker queue
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> stone: This is our agenda today - we start off looking at use cases , generally speaking and specific use cases from industry that will show how we expect this stuff to be seen/used.
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> stone: then after lunch, proposed architecture, goals, new to discussion - participating in calls for 2 years - some of this feels like this is well known for those of us that have been driving these discussions, we need to do a bit of education and listen to   observations. Tomorrow you'll see us go deeper into these items. By end of day, we will do brief review of W3C Process, it's a large standards org
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> stone: There is rigor in the way that they evolve from concept to standards recommendation. We will introduce what next year looks like.
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> ack gkellogg
[Thu 00:00:00] <Zakim> gkellogg, you wanted to discuss charter
[Thu 00:00:00] * Zakim sees no one on the speaker queue
[Thu 00:00:00] <Hughes> Where's the best place to find reading material on this? URL? Documents?
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> gkellogg: Do we have time to discuss the charter? We highlighted a couple of things that are in scope, the scope may expand over time, charter has a specific meaning in W3C, changing charter is extremely difficult
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> manu: Hughes, here's more material https://w3c.github.io/webpayments-ig/VCTF/
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> gkellogg: We should look at what charter says.
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> ShaneM: We can agenda bash tomorrow
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> ChristopherA: Want to make clear to people that are new here, I'd love to see W3C make progress, but it's taking forever, we're starting code, deploying without W3C... we're moving forward with or without W3C.
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> ChristopherA: If W3C comes up with something better, we'll adapt, but want to participate in process, but don't believe that we have to solve all of these charter problems for us to start shipping this.
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> korb: We are moving forward w/o W3C as well, we have a commercial product based on Verifiable Claims.
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> stone: That furthers the cause.
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> stone: Implementations coming to market - we need to cooperate on this.
[Thu 00:00:00] <Hughes> Is there a list of emerging implementations that are going down this road? Very interesting
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> gkellogg: To follow on - there are two ways for WGs to work - they try to design a system mthat will be implemented, the other is they try to codify things that happen in the real world. That's what we saw w/ HTML for instance. Taking a risk and implementing just make standards work more solid
[Thu 00:00:00] <erkorb_rm> +1 gkellogg
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> Hughes: Yes, but don't have list available right now
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> ChristopherA: Scope has shrunk down, people want answers out of the scope and we can't give answers.
[Thu 00:00:00] <Hughes> @manu - thanks
[Thu 00:00:00] <ShaneM> q+ to say that maybe this is best at 4 pm
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> gkellogg: We can't create a Recommendation, we can have CGs that push this stuff forward.
[Thu 00:00:00] <erkorb_rm> Hughes truecred.com
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> ack McCarron
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> ShaneM: We're getting into the 4pm topic, let's stay on track, we can circle back to W3C nonsense at 4pm.
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> manu: Lunch is a great time to demo.
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> Heather: Is there a list of deployed ideas w/ use cases.
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> Varn: Is there a list of initiatives? Yes, Lumina has identified a ton of them. Those are not verifiable claims per se, but they could use verifiable claims.
[Thu 00:00:00] <ShaneM> q+ to ask if Heather was volunteering to gather the list?
[Thu 00:00:00] * Zakim sees McCarron on the speaker queue
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> HeatherV: You are already working on stuff, it would be helpful to me to know - would be interesting to see list of things being done, how they influence, eventually they will need to be sync'd up.
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> HeatherV: Those of us who are interested can do research on our own without hunting though a mailing list.
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> HeatherV: I'm happy to participate as long as I have clients to participate.
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> ShaneM: Does anyone else want to collect this list? 
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> korb: Can we have a list?
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> ShaneM: There is something called an implementation report... we should all know who is working on this stuff. It's a valuable thing.
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> stone: There is a big phase in here that's about getting implementation commitments and tracking - implementing the standards, we need to know that, no reason not to get started.
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> manu: We have a wiki, start writing it down there.
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> ShaneM: There are people at W3C that are claiming no implementations, we need to help them see implementations is good
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> korb: We want to make sure it's not advertising, it's contribution.
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> ShaneM: Good to list them.
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> stone: We're trying to get to convergence, disparate stakeholder - professional, earner, stakeholder that cares about status, issuer - these are our stakeholders. These three stakeholders are important to the ecosystem and the process of this working. We need critical mass in all 3 of these camps for this to be successful. It's a complicated discussion.
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> Topic: Introduction to Use Cases
[Thu 00:00:00] <stone> new topic: Good Use Cases
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> speaker: Joe Andrieu
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1WWsv3Y1gcHzR1bE_CBbNxBTrIN1vDw_RohuPqUyfUxs/edit?usp=sharing
[Thu 00:00:00] <stone> scribe: stone
[Thu 00:00:00] <stone> andrieu: fluid development/requirements modeling
[Thu 00:00:00] <stone> andrieu: baseline: in the beginning, we know requirements are wrong and change
[Thu 00:00:00] <stone> andrieu: think of a "requirements model" that can provide a mechanism for requirements to evolve
[Thu 00:00:00] <stone> andrieu: can get benefit from even a bad requirement
[Thu 00:00:00] <stone> andrieu: a use case represents "real world value"  -- logging in is not a use case.
[Thu 00:00:00] <stone> andrieu: should be describable  and represent a single transaction
[Thu 00:00:00] <stone> andrieu: the "refugee use case" in ID2020 was too big
[Thu 00:00:00] <stone> andrieu: should be "empathizable" so the reader can understand the intent of the user
[Thu 00:00:00] <stone> andrieu: 2 examples: problem domain case and solution domain case
[Thu 00:00:00] <stone> VCTF Use Case: https://w3c.github.io/webpayments-ig/VCTF/use-cases/
[Thu 00:00:00] <stone> andrieu: problem - external trigger that caused user to ack
[Thu 00:00:00] <stone> andrieu: solution, internal, human trigger
[Thu 00:00:00] <stone> andrieu: focus on people, not system to system.  talk about specific users, not abstractions.  or roles that are clearly defined responsibilities.
[Thu 00:00:00] <stone> andrieu: these techniques help empathize w/ the user
[Thu 00:00:00] <stone> andrieu: needs map is a collection of use cases documented in VCTF, organized by (in this case) industry
[Thu 00:00:00] <stone> andrieu:  the needs map is a "problem domain" view of the use cases
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> VCTF Use Case: https://w3c.github.io/webpayments-ig/VCTF/use-cases/
[Thu 00:00:00] <stone> andrieu: solution domain cases are a "task map"
[Thu 00:00:00] <stone> andrieu: problem domain cases are implemented through solution domain tasks
[Thu 00:00:00] <stone> andrieu: start w/ a scenario - prose paragraph - to understand who the user is and how she interacts w/ the system
[Thu 00:00:00] <stone> andrieu: for example, jessica is a new employer who has a set of claims to move
[Thu 00:00:00] <stone> andrieu: narratives -- sequential descriptions, action/reaction, detailed steps in interaction. can be broken down into either "real world interaction" or "technology free"
[Thu 00:00:00] <stone> andrieu: real world example using an ATM machine
[Thu 00:00:00] <stone> andrieu: describes the sequential interactions w/ ATM
[Thu 00:00:00] <stone> andrieu: ok with injecting technology in this context and personas, like "Jessica enters PIN..."
[Thu 00:00:00] <Varn> manu--sent you an email copy of the credentials landscape review of 108 credentials initiatives for posting to our VCTF site if desired
[Thu 00:00:00] <stone> andrieu: technology fee narrative example: shows user intent and system responsibility, like "Start transaction withdrawal"/"Query identity" - doesn't require PIN, could be something else...
[Thu 00:00:00] <stone> Turner: discussion about sequence in this example.  does bank require identity first or later?
[Thu 00:00:00] <stone> andrieu: this discussion is what we like about this approach where technology isn't the focus
[Thu 00:00:00] <stone> manu: nice theoretical discussion, now move to VCTF examples
[Thu 00:00:00] <stone> andrieu: show the use case document
[Thu 00:00:00] <stone> manu: community gropu draft document of use case for VCTF that is in the package used in the charter conversation
[Thu 00:00:00] <stone> andrieu: anticipated role: issuer, inspector, holder (may or may not be the subject) - minor for example
[Thu 00:00:00] <Varn> or they have chosen an agent to be the holder of the claim
[Thu 00:00:00] <stone> stone: (see use case document for definitions)
[Thu 00:00:00] <stone> manu: there is pushback on terminology - it's impossible to find the right word that works for everyone.  it's a work in process.
[Thu 00:00:00] <Varn> q+
[Thu 00:00:00] <stone> andrieu: we'll follow a process to choose and move on
[Thu 00:00:00] <stone> richard: we've had a lot of discussions to get to 'this set of words'  these roles reflect the reality of the current makeet place.  The roles are critical to the functions we're serving
[Thu 00:00:00] <stone> ChristopherA: anybody can be any of those roles - every use case should contemplate that concept
[Thu 00:00:00] <Varn> you cannot inspect your own claim but yes, anyone can hold any role including issuing oneself a claim
[Thu 00:00:00] <stone> Hardt: don't worry about terminology too much.  everyone argues all the time, just be consistent
[Thu 00:00:00] <erkorb_rm> +1 rvarn
[Thu 00:00:00] <stone> manu: in the w3c process, this will be raised and we'll have to figure out how to respond
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> ack manu
[Thu 00:00:00] <stone> andrieu: reviews several specific uses cases in the document by industry
[Thu 00:00:00] <Varn> q+
[Thu 00:00:00] * Zakim sees Varn on the speaker queue
[Thu 00:00:00] <stone> Hardt: how do introduce a new category of use cases
[Thu 00:00:00] * manu that's Allen
[Thu 00:00:00] <stone> Hardt: small community (web of trust example), self signed claims, connect to other individuals, anonyous claims, evidence, reputation
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> q+ HeatherV
[Thu 00:00:00] * Zakim sees Varn, HeatherV on the speaker queue
[Thu 00:00:00] <stone> andrieu: new category- "communities of trust"
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> ack HeatherV
[Thu 00:00:00] * Zakim sees Varn on the speaker queue
[Thu 00:00:00] <stone> heather: military is a community
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> q?
[Thu 00:00:00] * Zakim sees Varn on the speaker queue
[Thu 00:00:00] <stone> HeatherV: military requires other attributes like security provisions, etc...
[Thu 00:00:00] <stone> heatherV: working on use cases that we might use
[Thu 00:00:00] <stone> Varn: thoughs on the utility, value of the examples we have ?
[Thu 00:00:00] <stone> Hardt: there may be missing some details that are more individualistic
[Thu 00:00:00] <ShaneM> q+ to mention that there should be more cases in the retail area
[Thu 00:00:00] * Zakim sees McCarron on the speaker queue
[Thu 00:00:00] <Varn> clubs and memberships
[Thu 00:00:00] <stone> andrieu: if we had a full day, think of all the ways you can use a paperclip type brainstorm.  first expand possibilities, then focus
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> q+ to note that we need to pick focal use cases for WG work.
[Thu 00:00:00] <stone> vivian: IoT in scope or out of scope?
[Thu 00:00:00] <stone> andrieu: where are the people involved
[Thu 00:00:00] <stone> ChristopherA: who has the agency?
[Thu 00:00:00] <stone> andrieu: missing something like "tickets to an event'
[Thu 00:00:00] <ShaneM> scribe: ShaneM
[Thu 00:00:00] <stone> closing this session, moving to industries next.
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> Topic: Education Industry Use Cases
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> Slides are here: https://drive.google.com/open?id=19r0Mq_dQfCvuqjpBNHvciidX5j8ffo5ocEK4pxqjxts
[Thu 00:00:00] <ShaneM> speaker: Robert Bajor, digital promise
[Thu 00:00:00] <ShaneM> Innovation in Education mission from Congress. 11 initiatives.  one is on credentials
[Thu 00:00:00] <ShaneM> rob is here representing the badge alliance today
[Thu 00:00:00] <ShaneM> Paula Schandra - learning in the digital age
[Thu 00:00:00] <Varn> I think we need an entity use case like we are a tax exempt organization, this organization is a registered corporation in the state of X, or this entity has a permit to do X.
[Thu 00:00:00] <ShaneM> Robert is also here presenting the Badge Alliance
[Thu 00:00:00] <ShaneM> Robert does an overview of what an open badge is.
[Thu 00:00:00] <ShaneM> Bajor: Educators can earn badges.  Data needs to be baked into the claims
[Thu 00:00:00] <ShaneM> Paula: working with 12 cities to start integrating local organizational experiences with digital experiences
[Thu 00:00:00] <ShaneM> ... millions of badges have been issued already all over the place.
[Thu 00:00:00] <ShaneM> ... they are used, developed, and created by various stakeholders who have a real investment in ensuring that they are accurate.
[Thu 00:00:00] <ShaneM> Bajor: This type of learning is happening nationally.  Some of these people never see one another.
[Thu 00:00:00] <ShaneM> ShaneM: There are a lot of ways that badges are being used.  Robert presented a few examples.
[Thu 00:00:00] <ShaneM> ShaneM: Working with a variety of states to get continuing education credits.  Hope to get all states eventually.
[Thu 00:00:00] <ShaneM> Paula: Open Badges will be adopted as an IMS Global Standard.  Official working group in planning to launch January 2017
[Thu 00:00:00] <ShaneM> manu: how many organizations are involved in IMS?
[Thu 00:00:00] <ShaneM> John: hundreds
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> One of the primary standards bodies in the education space.
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> scribe: manu
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> ShaneM: I liked the use cases, did you look at the education use cases that we have?
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> ShaneM: I'd be interested in getting your feedback on how they could be improved. At the end of the day, we try to synthesize down to scenarios that differentiate. Let's have some scenarios that reveal unique requirements.
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> ShaneM: That's what makes use case documents helpful to others - if we have 7 use cases that come down to "portable", that's not as helpful. But if we get different requirements out of that, that would be very important.
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> scribe: ShaneM
[Thu 00:00:00] <ShaneM> Bajor:  There are three major players.  Educators earn credentials.  Providers create the content and verify that it is valid.  Districts verify that the content is legitimate and certify it.
[Thu 00:00:00] <ShaneM> ...Based upon those three stakeholders we could come up with some really useful examples.
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> q+ to note more info on OpenBadges
[Thu 00:00:00] <ShaneM> ChristopherA: Have you looked at the VC work?  DIDs, data formats, etc.  HOw close are you to what VCTF is proposing.
[Thu 00:00:00] <ShaneM> Bajor: Have you looked at open badges?  Nate Otto is the expert.
[Thu 00:00:00] <ShaneM> Richard: The types of use cases they are describing are largely covered by the IMS working groups.
[Thu 00:00:00] <ShaneM> ...The VCTF / W3C work is about making that information portable outside of that ecosystem.
[Thu 00:00:00] <ShaneM> ... What is interesting is how to manifest the information in a way that is searchable so that the credentials can be used to help with cirriculum development.
[Thu 00:00:00] <ShaneM> Bajor: it is finding information, as well as supplying the information.
[Thu 00:00:00] <ShaneM> manu: Nate Otto is part of the group.  We have been working with them for more than 2 years.
[Thu 00:00:00] <ShaneM> ... They have migrated to JSON-LD with JWT signatures.... we use linked data signatures.  We are seeing the merging of the two technologies.
[Thu 00:00:00] <ShaneM> ... what Nate and the group have been talking about is embedding open badges within a verifiable claim.
[Thu 00:00:00] <ShaneM> ...(claim composition)
[Thu 00:00:00] <ShaneM> ... open badges is a meta-data model.
[Thu 00:00:00] <ShaneM> ChristopherA: An open badge itself is not a verifiable claim.  It can be put into one.
[Thu 00:00:00] <ShaneM> ... there is an MIT group that is doing similar things...
[Thu 00:00:00] <ShaneM> ... the third thing I have heard is multiple signature.  Multiple people need to sign things.  Sounds like a requirement for the verificaiton working group.
[Thu 00:00:00] <ShaneM> agropper: About the two sided advertising.  It seems like an uber-use case.  I have been on some calls and at RWoT and have never heard this before.
[Thu 00:00:00] <ShaneM> ... my question is - is this a class of requirement rather than an requirement itself?
[Thu 00:00:00] <ShaneM> ...Specifically the ability to advertise or seek.  Is this a requirement?
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> q+ to note "signaling problem"
[Thu 00:00:00] <ShaneM> Richard: The other groups call it signalling.  You need to be able to build an app that can help discover things and share things.
[Thu 00:00:00] <ShaneM> ... you need to be able to produce the information in a form so that it can be consumed.
[Thu 00:00:00] <ShaneM> ... "micro-credential economy"
[Thu 00:00:00] <ShaneM> ...The difference is that we can invoke an identity service, express the information in a standardized format, and normalized in a data model that allows it to be machine consumable.
[Thu 00:00:00] <ShaneM> agropper: I have not seen this before and it is important.  It should be somewhere.
[Thu 00:00:00] <ShaneM> Paula:  One of the problems LRNG is trying to solve is helping employers be able to ask the right questions.
[Thu 00:00:00] <ShaneM> manu: All we can do is create a data format in the working group.  But having said that we need to capture these concepts in the use cases or something
[Thu 00:00:00] <ShaneM> ... but the current data model supports this.
[Thu 00:00:00] <ShaneM> ... Multi-sig is something that absolutely needs to happen.  Open Badges has another term for this.
[Thu 00:00:00] <ShaneM> ChristopherA: Are we verifying individual signatures, or verifying within a composite
[Thu 00:00:00] <ShaneM> manu: It is out of scope
[Thu 00:00:00] <ShaneM> ChristopherA: But it is within the scope of the new verification community
[Thu 00:00:00] <ShaneM> ChristopherA: I am worried about putting an open badge within a verifiable claim.  What are the things in an open badge that a verifiable claim is unable to do?  Why aren;t they the same
[Thu 00:00:00] <ShaneM> Bajor: That's a great question.
[Thu 00:00:00] <ShaneM> Richard: Data elements are well defined already.  We need to express them in a verifiable way.  But the OBI already has a rich data model.
[Thu 00:00:00] <ShaneM> ... It is the other specific things like verification.  Like high stakes work.  Verifiable Claims needs to handle this.
[Thu 00:00:00] <ShaneM> ChristopherA: We can get into the complicated verification models later.
[Thu 00:00:00] <ShaneM> Topic: Healthcare Use Cases
[Thu 00:00:00] <ShaneM> agropper: Presenting slides about healthcare
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1QPx7W0adkYGT-7vtFLO5-BQpC19uz4z_USr9KaCugOs/edit?usp=sharing
[Thu 00:00:00] <ShaneM> gkellogg: It seems to me that there is something more complicated going on here.
[Thu 00:00:00] <ShaneM> ...Classifying the MD as the subject seems wrong.  That is the patient.
[Thu 00:00:00] <ShaneM> ...Also, the MD has a certificate already from the DEA.
[Thu 00:00:00] <ShaneM> agropper: In this use case everything is about the MD.
[Thu 00:00:00] <ShaneM> ...A credential is maintained by the medical society because the issuers do not have servers.
[Thu 00:00:00] <ShaneM> ...medical societies don't want liability in this.  They just want to be a directory.
[Thu 00:00:00] <ShaneM> ...The MD has permission to issue because their credentials are in good standing.
[Thu 00:00:00] <ShaneM> agropper: I see this as a single transaction.  My goal is to map the typical transaction.
[Thu 00:00:00] <ShaneM> richard: "I see this use case as a nested use case" some of us are saying.  That doesn't really change his use case.  It is just how it might map into our world.
[Thu 00:00:00] <ShaneM> agropper: Yes, and the reason it is NOT a nested a use case is because my goal is to make it single so that the patient becomes the holder of the prescription and regains the ability to shop that around.
[Thu 00:00:00] <ShaneM> Richard: We need a way to express that there are dependencies / layers within a claim.  We may not have talked about that as much as we need to.
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> scribe: manu
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> ShaneM: I think he did that, there is only one inspector in this transaction.
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> scribe: ShaneM
[Thu 00:00:00] <ShaneM> Law: You can address the complexity by leaving the responsibility to the inspector
[Thu 00:00:00] <ShaneM> ShaneM: that's exactly what he has already done.
[Thu 00:00:00] <ShaneM> gregg: This implies the prescription is issued by the medical society.
[Thu 00:00:00] <ShaneM> manu: Well, the medical society issues a claim to the MD.
[Thu 00:00:00] <ShaneM> Gregg: So the claim is NOT the prescription.  It is the doctors credentials.
[Thu 00:00:00] <ShaneM> manu: in this use case, yes.  Eventually they might get to where the MD can issue a claim that is a prescription.
[Thu 00:00:00] <ShaneM> ChristopherA: Either are possible.  It is just the way that the DIDs work and the way the pharmacy's IT department is willing to implement the inspection protocols.
[Thu 00:00:00] <ShaneM> ...There is a one-time-use aspect to this claim.
[Thu 00:00:00] <ShaneM> ...What is a minimal viable credential that can satisfy all the use cases?
[Thu 00:00:00] <ShaneM> ChristopherA: depending on how we implement it is up to the people who are using the credentials, cryptography, claims...
[Thu 00:00:00] <ShaneM> ChristopherA: The inspector should be able to walk the dereferencing tree and make decisions about who I trust and who I don't trust.  If there are enough for me to trust it I go ahead.
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> scribe: manu
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> ShaneM: We'll talk about architecture and composition later.
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> ShaneM: They're acting as a repository
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> ShaneM: That's a piece, then the doctor is issuing a claim, and the target is this person. But the pharmacist needs those two claims plus information about that patient's medical records and that person's other information.
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> scribe: ShaneM
[Thu 00:00:00] <ShaneM> agropper: This is important.  The concept that the paper prescription can be moved is something we want to maintain.
[Thu 00:00:00] <ShaneM> agropper: in reality what we want is Alice to record that there was a scrip written into their health record.
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> scribe: manu
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> ShaneM: I agree with what you're saying, we don't want to lose the fact that alice is in charge of her prescription... she gets to choose what information is shared. So, she gets to decide what to share?
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> scribe: ShaneM
[Thu 00:00:00] <ShaneM> andrieu: I would break it into two use cases.  One is the doctor wants Alice to get the medicine.  The other is Alice is wants the medicine.
[Thu 00:00:00] <ShaneM> eric: How long does the claim last?  O got it now I am done.  What about refills.  What about moving among pharmacies for refills?
[Thu 00:00:00] <ShaneM> agropper: If we go there we get into the scope of time and interest.  You could factor in decision support and actors.
[Thu 00:00:00] <ShaneM> ...Sometimes there are existing relationships that can be taken into account.
[Thu 00:00:00] <ShaneM> agropper: The world looks very different when you look at it from a self-sovereign perspective
[Thu 00:00:00] <ShaneM> Richard: There is a bunch of business logic that is already done.  Already built into the systems.
[Thu 00:00:00] <ShaneM> ... there are already a lot of rules for how pharmacies deal with prescriptions.  We need a way to refer to existing rules for things that are solved provblems.
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> scribe: manu
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> ShaneM: Yes, that makes sense, why reinvent the wheel.
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> ShaneM: Eric brought up a good point, Adrian talked about self-sovereign. I think Pharmacies make it difficult to go elsewhere. On the other hand, it's really interesting to me. I should be able to walk into anywhere and provide my healthcare records, etc.
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> scribe: ShaneM
[Thu 00:00:00] <ShaneM> Richard: We cant force a business rule change with a standard.
[Thu 00:00:00] <ShaneM> agropper: the uber use case.  Matchmaking of whatever you want to call it.  We do model this in the reference implementation.  We use a service that can tell me what the costs could be for a prescription as an example.
[Thu 00:00:00] <ShaneM> ...But we can limit the information about what is known to the service provider.  Share the information to shop the prescription.
[Thu 00:00:00] <ShaneM> eric: What you are doing is coming up with vertical use cases and then harmonizing the with horizontal requirements.
[Thu 00:00:00] <ShaneM> Varn: I would love to have a disintermediated prescription world.  But it isn't something we are going to be able to enforce.
[Thu 00:00:00] <ShaneM> Topic: Payments Use Cases
[Thu 00:00:00] <ShaneM> Heuer: Presenting information about the value of integrating technologies into purchase processes
[Thu 00:00:00] <ShaneM> ... "It has a thing-y aspect to it"
[Thu 00:00:00] <ShaneM> ... Additional apps are an impediment to adoption.... people don't like to install them
[Thu 00:00:00] <ShaneM> manu nods
[Thu 00:00:00] <ShaneM> Heuer: We need to be able to handle lots of things like NFC, optical character recog, UPC, QR
[Thu 00:00:00] <ShaneM> ...When talking about claims, all of these things are possible.
[Thu 00:00:00] <ShaneM> ...There should be streamlined redemption of coupons during checkout.  This is different than claims of education credentials.
[Thu 00:00:00] <ShaneM> ...Use story.   Customers want coupons to just be automatic and transparent.  Issuers of coupons want people to see them
[Thu 00:00:00] <ShaneM> ... these requirements are conflicting.
[Thu 00:00:00] <ShaneM> ...Setting up an open source project for wallet handler.  Could work for claims in addition to payment instruments.
[Thu 00:00:00] <ShaneM> ...Design allows for arbitrary interaction between the issuer, the holder, and the inspector.  Flexible data formats.
[Thu 00:00:00] <ShaneM> ...Wallet allows for communication to targets like web pages, NFC, BT, etc.  Could send payment information, claims, etc.
[Thu 00:00:00] <ShaneM> manu: some shops need to know things about you to sell you things.
[Thu 00:00:00] <ShaneM> ...as a general statement I think there are some financial use cases and retail use cases.  But we probably need more.
[Thu 00:00:00] <ShaneM> ...digital coupons would help push things along for the retail industry.
[Thu 00:00:00] <ShaneM> heuer:  If there were a good general architecture then the number of modules for moving claims would decrease dramatically.
[Thu 00:00:00] <ShaneM> stone: how is a loyalty card a claim?
[Thu 00:00:00] <ShaneM> Heuer: Think of a VIP club membership.  When you are in a store that uses that club, I will need to prove I am in that club.
[Thu 00:00:00] <ShaneM> ... I think that means it is a claim.
[Thu 00:00:00] <ShaneM> stone: So your claim is the membership.  Which might associate with the point levels or whatever on the backend.  What you carry is the claim.
[Thu 00:00:00] <ShaneM> Timothy: Where is the wallet hosted?
[Thu 00:00:00] <ShaneM> Heuer: The original idea was an app on a device.
[Thu 00:00:00] <ShaneM> ... what we did was that we introduced a backend with an HTML5 / phonegap application so that it would run anywhere.
[Thu 00:00:00] <ShaneM> Timothy: Okay - but WHERE is the wallet?
[Thu 00:00:00] <Andrieu> "There is no cloud. It's just somebody else's computer"
[Thu 00:00:00] <ShaneM> Heuer: The idea was originally that it was associated with an operator who would host the information.
[Thu 00:00:00] <ShaneM> Timothy: Is there a way to combine this with a self-sovereign identity.
[Thu 00:00:00] <ShaneM> Heuer: If you don't need the hardware stuff, then yes you could do things today./me notes 3 minutes
[Thu 00:00:00] <ShaneM> Timothy: Ecosystem is different than self-sovereign
[Thu 00:00:00] <ShaneM> ... self-sovereign means you accept *me*.  Not the *me* that some other company is verifying.
[Thu 00:00:00] <ShaneM> Heuer: yes.  And it should be possible but there are some requirements when special hardware is involved (e.g., a secure element for EMVco).
[Thu 00:00:00] <gkellogg> topic: Verifiable Claims Proposed Architecture / Goals
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> scribe: gkellogg
[Thu 00:00:00] <gkellogg> ShaneM: when i talk about VC, i start with the problems we’re trying to solve. The problems feed into the architecture.
[Thu 00:00:00] <gkellogg> … It’s self-sovereign to the point it leads into the claims.
[Thu 00:00:00] <gkellogg> … Key aspects are composability and distribution. Claims should be used to the extent that I approve.
[Thu 00:00:00] <gkellogg> … The value for W3C is enhancing the usability of the web; but we know it’s not just the web.
[Thu 00:00:00] <gkellogg> manu: one of the things that people continue to confuse is that we’re only working on data model/syntax, but questions come up about protocol and other things that are out of scope for the WG.
[Thu 00:00:00] <gkellogg> stone: is this the right venue to talk about continued role of CG vs WG.
[Thu 00:00:00] <gkellogg> ShaneM: problem with WG is you’re stuck with the charter. CG is responsible for the vision
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> scribe: manu
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> gkellogg: should be an IG
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> scribe: gkellogg
[Thu 00:00:00] <gkellogg> ShaneM: yes, but we have a CG, and not an IG.
[Thu 00:00:00] <gkellogg> manu: IG has more official capacity.
[Thu 00:00:00] <gkellogg> ShaneM: IG is “Interest Group”, member only. CG is “Community Group”, allowing everyone.
[Thu 00:00:00] <gkellogg> … is talking about the architecture at this level a problem?
[Thu 00:00:00] <gkellogg> manu: Yes, because people get confused.
[Thu 00:00:00] <gkellogg> ShaneM: you have to start with the foundation before you can build on top.
[Thu 00:00:00] <gkellogg> … Anyone can associate a claim with an identifier. This goes back to composability.
[Thu 00:00:00] <gkellogg> … We want issuers to be able to revoke claims.
[Thu 00:00:00] <gkellogg> … We’re vertical neutral. We’re doing vertical use cases but extracting horizontal requirements.
[Thu 00:00:00] <gkellogg> … The terminology is problematic, but not worth the fight. As we get new members, we’ll get more opinions. But, we need to use something (Bagel is taken :)
[Thu 00:00:00] <gkellogg> heuer: Some of the terms bother me. “Identifier” implies something else to me.
[Thu 00:00:00] <gkellogg> varn: perhaps “Identity” instead?
[Thu 00:00:00] <gkellogg> manu: absolutely not!
[Thu 00:00:00] <gkellogg> heuer: an identifier has meaning.
[Thu 00:00:00] <gkellogg> manu: in this case, “identifier” is the subject identifier used to bind attributes to.
[Thu 00:00:00] <gkellogg> ShaneM: the charter uses “identifier” in this sense.
[Thu 00:00:00] <gkellogg> heuer: so, the identifier doesn’t mean that the claim is associated to an identity, but to an identifier.
[Thu 00:00:00] <gkellogg> … I’d like to make sure that’s separated.
[Thu 00:00:00] <gkellogg> ShaneM: naming is hard!
[Thu 00:00:00] <gkellogg> … I’d be happy to see that claims can exist without being associated with an identity
[Thu 00:00:00] <gkellogg> stone: does this allow abstract things such as repositories to be identified?
[Thu 00:00:00] <gkellogg> varn: it’s up to the use case to see if the identifier is bound to anything.
[Thu 00:00:00] <gkellogg> manu: you care that the data matches, the identifier isn’t significant.
[Thu 00:00:00] <gkellogg> ShaneM: If I use a VC as a ticket to a concert, the venue wants to be sure I’m the one using it, and not scalping it
[Thu 00:00:00] <gkellogg> … Identifier used in a claim isn’t used for anything else. It’s only the components of the claim that have lasting meaning (US govt, etc.)
[Thu 00:00:00] <gkellogg> heuer: does revocation has a similar optional quality? I’m not sure that we always want claims to be revocable. You just wan’t to be sure it’s your’s, e.g. DRM.
[Thu 00:00:00] <gkellogg> ShaneM: we actually have the problem with DRM on DVDs. (Also bluray’s).
[Thu 00:00:00] <gkellogg> manu: revocation is optional, it’s a feature that can be added.
[Thu 00:00:00] <gkellogg> ShaneM: If I create a revocable claim I can always revoke it.
[Thu 00:00:00] <gkellogg> varn: you have a degree for the rest of your life, and I can’t revoke it.
[Thu 00:00:00] <gkellogg> stone: it can be rescinded, not revoked
[Thu 00:00:00] <gkellogg> … Do we have a use case for rescinding an irrevocable claim?
[Thu 00:00:00] <gkellogg> ShaneM: If the state issues a claim that’s part of my driving record (DUI, for example), I can’t revoke that (subject), only revocable by issuer.
[Thu 00:00:00] <gkellogg> manu: the architecture allows a link to be added for revocation. But, if you have something like a citizenship, you may want to revoke it.
[Thu 00:00:00] <gkellogg> varn: we’re conflating business rules with architecture for revocation.
[Thu 00:00:00] <gkellogg> ShaneM: “we shall not prohibit” these things in the architecture.
[Thu 00:00:00] <gkellogg> Adam: I’m looking at assets and liabilities. If a prison record is a claim, the subject cannot revoke it. We’ll only issue claims that are assets, not liabilities.
[Thu 00:00:00] <gkellogg> Heuer: in Germany, we’re able to issue digital cards, and mark that a card was read at a certain time. Not the same as representing an EID card; from this we could allow applications that do not show these things. We should enable it in the architecture.
[Thu 00:00:00] <gkellogg> ShaneM: what’s not built in is decomposition. You can’t extract things from a claim.
[Thu 00:00:00] <gkellogg> … A claim always has an identifier for a subject, and claims about that subject. Metadata and a digital signature. As you compose new claims, you’re creating supersets of this. This structure addresses most use cases, if metadata is done right.
[Thu 00:00:00] <gkellogg> varn: is digital signature sufficient to describe these things.
[Thu 00:00:00] <gkellogg> ShaneM: we think the term is adequate; LD signatures talks about the different ways claims might be signed.
[Thu 00:00:00] <gkellogg> adam: what about claim sets, with different identifiers?
[Thu 00:00:00] <gkellogg> manu: that’s different from claim aggregation. Saying that one identifier is the “same as” another is more difficult.
[Thu 00:00:00] <gkellogg> adam: If I want to use a specific identifier for somethings, does the architecture support that? You’re going to end up with a different structure for different RPs (Inspector).
[Thu 00:00:00] <gkellogg> manu: I think the fundamental principle is that multiple orgs will issue credentials. The data model makes sure that the format is the same.
[Thu 00:00:00] <gkellogg> … The more identifiers you have, the more you have to manage.
[Thu 00:00:00] <gkellogg> … The architecture allows this, but you need a different software agent that’s really good at managing these things.
[Thu 00:00:00] <gkellogg> … One of the things that’s changed since SAML is schema.org, that is a common place to describe these things.
[Thu 00:00:00] <gkellogg> adam: for some, that’s a non-starter.
[Thu 00:00:00] <gkellogg> manu: in an open eco-system, common vocabularies are necessary.
[Thu 00:00:00] <gkellogg> ShaneM: these can be managed in a context. This allows mapping terms to the same vocabulary terms.
[Thu 00:00:00] <gkellogg> varn: if you want to have many claims about age, who is responsible for describing the different claim terms? Does this reduce to a numeric value?
[Thu 00:00:00] <gkellogg> adam: greater than works, for an age, less than doesn’t, as it changes over time.
[Thu 00:00:00] <gkellogg> ShaneM: We don’t have specific terms, they will need to be added.
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> scribe: manu
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> gkellogg: Ultimately, it reduces to the choice of vocabulary, if someone just makes up the vocabularies, schema age vs. foaf age - one is going to use one, one is going to use the other. Is there some way of agreeing to figure out which vertical will use?
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> gkellogg: More and more is fine, but if anyone chooses what they want to use...
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> scribe: gkellogg
[Thu 00:00:00] <gkellogg> manu: we expect vocabularies to emerge in different verticals; we won’t standardize.
[Thu 00:00:00] <gkellogg> ShaneM: subject doesn’t come up in many of the use cases, but the subject of a claim may be a thing that will never be a holder (e.g., Dog).
[Thu 00:00:00] <gkellogg> … We need some kind of identifier registry (DiD management thing) that’s keeping track of the identifier space. These are important terms when we talk about composition.
[Thu 00:00:00] <gkellogg> … A curator can help maintain a collection of claims, and perhaps mint them over time (composition of other claims)
[Thu 00:00:00] <gkellogg> adam: the main use case will be to create claims on the fly
[Thu 00:00:00] <gkellogg> varn: we’re saying claims and that they can be composed of different data elements. Do we need to say anything about elements of a claim being composed.
[Thu 00:00:00] <gkellogg> manu: The way we do it in the spec is different than varn said. The issuer chooses to bundle together a set of attributes. The holder can’t de-compose these. The issuer will issue a claim with all attributes, but may choose to issue separate with individual attributes that allows for future composition.
[Thu 00:00:00] <gkellogg> stone: a holder can’t de-compose a grant, unless it was discreetly issued.
[Thu 00:00:00] <gkellogg> ShaneM: that’s a design choice. It’s easier to talk about discrete granular claims than de-composition.
[Thu 00:00:00] <gkellogg> stone: the issuer won’t want to give holders claims for all combinations.
[Thu 00:00:00] <gkellogg> manu: There are types of signatures that allow the receiver to recompose.
[Thu 00:00:00] <gkellogg> … You can prevent claims from being composed.
[Thu 00:00:00] <dlongley> note: different signature schemes may allow for decomposition/selective disclosure in the future (we should allow for extensions like this and we currently do)
[Thu 00:00:00] <gkellogg> ShaneM: dlongley’s point is fair; we’re not preventing that, but we’re not designing for it either.
[Thu 00:00:00] <gkellogg> … In this case, the holder becomes an issuer (composition).
[Thu 00:00:00] <gkellogg> ShaneM: you may have a composed claim, and they need to chase it down to determine that one composed claim is from Kaiser, which they do trust, even though they don’t necessarily trust the holder.
[Thu 00:00:00] <gkellogg> … There are all sorts of places in the architecture where people are doing inspection Just because you’re a holder doesn’t mean you’re also an Inspector.
[Thu 00:00:00] <gkellogg> manu: these issues are discussed in more detailed diagrams. For example, a hospital may hand off inspection to another part.
[Thu 00:00:00] <gkellogg> … If you go to the DMV, and they issue a claim, you may want to inspect that before putting it in your wallet. (Perhaps it was a bogus issuer).
[Thu 00:00:00] <gkellogg> ShaneM: the ecosystem will specify a trust model, not part of the architecture.
[Thu 00:00:00] <gkellogg> adam: trust models that evolve organically aren’t always good.
[Thu 00:00:00] <gkellogg> ChristopherA: we want to make sure the architecture allows the important trust models, but can’t mandate them.
[Thu 00:00:00] <gkellogg> manu: once we have a WG, there may be large interests that want to restrict these things.
[Thu 00:00:00] <gkellogg> ChristopherA: the self-sovereign community has already had a big impact on this. No one has a privileged place.
[Thu 00:00:00] <gkellogg> ShaneM: it comes down to if the inspector buys into your trust model. One of the use cases discusses this.
[Thu 00:00:00] <gkellogg> … If a credential is composed, the inspector needs to buy off on the trust model to follow a chain of issuers.
[Thu 00:00:00] <gkellogg> ChristopherA: this is analogous to the way first and second generation block chain systems work.
[Thu 00:00:00] <gkellogg> ShaneM: we talk about enhancing usability on the web. automating verification, accessability.
[Thu 00:00:00] <gkellogg> … If we can make the stuff real and automatic, it levels the playing field. Let’s not prohibit this in the arch.
[Thu 00:00:00] <gkellogg> … Fraud reduction; this is a real problem, if we can automate that ...
[Thu 00:00:00] <gkellogg> … The US government may want to delegate these services.
[Thu 00:00:00] <gkellogg> … We want it to be ubiquitous, but also decentralized. Pick Google, it’s ubiquitous, but not decentralized.
[Thu 00:00:00] <gkellogg> … Privacy enhancement is a big deal. Holders are responsible for the claims, and get to determine who sees it.
[Thu 00:00:00] <gkellogg> … We need to provide for a period during which the claim can be used (or verified).
[Thu 00:00:00] <gkellogg> ChristopherA: I want to highlight repudiate/revoke. It’s hard, which we learned with certificates. Revocation lists didn’t work. Also, when you do that with the current approach, you’re leaking information that it was submitted.
[Thu 00:00:00] <gkellogg> … We can do it, and it will work, but note that it is hard. Depends on if the issuer wants to be available, and risks privacy.
[Thu 00:00:00] <gkellogg> … The short-term validation helps.
[Thu 00:00:00] <gkellogg> varn: why can’t the spec include the ability to expire the decryption of the payload.
[Thu 00:00:00] <gkellogg> ShaneM: there’s physics, business rules and law. Physics can’t be circumvented.
[Thu 00:00:00] <gkellogg> adam: Google walked away form session timeout while recognizing that revocation was not solved.
[Thu 00:00:00] <gkellogg> stone: if the claim expires, the verifier gets market analytics every time it’s used.
[Thu 00:00:00] <gkellogg> ChristopherA: you can have the identifier be a bitcoin address that is valid if there are funds on it, and not valid otherwise. This allows revocation without leaking information.
[Thu 00:00:00] <gkellogg> … The idea of people wanting issuers to optionally be able to add evidence; which means that it may be happening on this side, where i’m not just looking at the issuer, but the evidence. It’s not precluded, but we may want to highlight it. (came up in open badges).
[Thu 00:00:00] <gkellogg> varn: can you push additional metadata after it’s signed (no). You might add a link in the metadata that could be followed to find out renewed/additional evidence about a claim.
[Thu 00:00:00] <gkellogg> ChristopherA: We don’t just verify the claim, but the evidence in the claim. (A soldier includes a photo as evidence in a claim about a refugee).
[Thu 00:00:00] <gkellogg> varn: claim metadata can be included or referential; most want to use referential to allow for update.
[Thu 00:00:00] <gkellogg> stone: we’re asking if the claim is valid, and if we trust the issuer and their evidence.
[Thu 00:00:00] <gkellogg> andrieu: we’re also talking about identify insurance. We need language about the business rules involved with verifying a claim.
[Thu 00:00:00] <JoeAndrieu> "identity assurance" - meaning inspecting the claims' contents verses business rules
[Thu 00:00:00] <gkellogg> ShaneM: There are parts of this we haven’t covered.
[Thu 00:00:00] <gkellogg> … We haven’t talked about adding something to a claim.
[Thu 00:00:00] <JoeAndrieu> Topic: Data model and Representation Overview
[Thu 00:00:00] <JoeAndrieu> scribe: JoeAndrieu
[Thu 00:00:00] <JoeAndrieu> manu: There is a spec. Our focus is, specifically, on Syntaxes and Data models. Not  protocols or APIs
[Thu 00:00:00] <JoeAndrieu> Spec is in agenda. We're doing a deep dive tomorrow.
[Thu 00:00:00] <JoeAndrieu> manu: blockchain can help address privacy issues with checking revocation of credentials
[Thu 00:00:00] <JoeAndrieu> manu: data within claim could be a single attribute (claim set) or multiple, such as an entire scholastic transcript
[Thu 00:00:00] <JoeAndrieu> ChristopherA: we've said id is where you go to check revocation. maybe that's not the best way
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> claim set / credentials / composite claims terminology sill being defined
[Thu 00:00:00] <JoeAndrieu> ChristopherA: I'd love to see every time we mention digital signature, we add ", timestamp" because timestamp is important part of some compositions, and NOT a signature
[Thu 00:00:00] <JoeAndrieu> *break*
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> scribe: manu
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> Topic: The W3C Process
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> stone: Richard and I are going to lean on the people in the room on the process.
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1_PIMNxFP_kHK0H-SE0_Zv-yYqJTE8tXzDmK-OdKD8TI/edit
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> stone: High level - W3C is a 420 person member organization
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> stone: Each organization gets a say on quality/direction of standards/recommendations.
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> stone: via AC rep
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> stone: decisions are made based on consensus
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> stone: It takes a lot of work to make a decision and have that decision stick. We've been working on this for at least 2-4 years, we're building consensus on larger community
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> stone: We're representing the need for a solution in this space. Net impact is two fold, standards that get adopted and used, equality and value, but takes a long time to get there.
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> stone: Next year, key milestones - Create WG - official charter under review.
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> ShaneM: There was some push back - no one is saying I"m going to build/use this - those are the comments today.
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> Richard: We can have others weigh in.
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> scribe: gkellogg
[Thu 00:00:00] <gkellogg> manu: there are a number of people in rebooting web of trust that are frustrated with W3C and are planning on moving ahead and implementing anyway.
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> scribe: manu
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> gkellogg: We have a number of people saying that they will implement.
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> ShaneM: This can be handlable - we can deal w/ this.
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> Natasha: There are examples of things done in app space that are taken up. Those people that work in that way at W3C see a lot of success, previous Techinical Architecture Group liked that - a lot of people are holding on to that methodology. That's where it comes from.
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> ShaneM: I think it makes sense, in that case.
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> ShaneM: I think a lot of people also think that only the browser is the Web platform, this isn't just about the browser.
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> andrieu: You can't do the crypto stuff you need w/ browsers today....
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> scribe: gkellogg
[Thu 00:00:00] <gkellogg> manu: we need to be careful about we state, as the charter is under review.
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> scribe: manu
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> stone: Assuming we navigate these waters this quarter, the schedule may shift.
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> stone: IF the group is formed, we should p lan our next face-to-face.
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> Natasha: Have you talked w/ Wendy about this?
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> manu: Yes.
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> Natasha: They don't have a strategy around blue sky - when I have conversations w/ Alan, in practice, they get squashed pretty quickly. Maybe we should have a discussion w/ Wendy - not only do they want to take native stuff and work on those, but make sure Web is where these things are done.
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> Eric: What's the problem here?
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> Richard: Intellectual and proprietary interests.
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> Stone: I think disintermediation is playing a role.
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> Richard: One comment we got from Microsoft was that none of their customers wanted Verifiable Claims.
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> Eric: Microsoft is releasing verifiable claims as a product
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> Drummond: Assuming these organizations block us here, what is the fastest path to standardization?
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> Someone: Take it to another standardization body.
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> Richard: IMS Global has said that they're willing to house this in their SSO.
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> Eric: Can Pearson flex its muscle there?
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> Pearson: We can do more - our organization is very excited w/ what we're doing.
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> Richard: We are willing to walk from W3C if they keep dragging their feet on this.
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> Stone: Once there is a successful vote, a WG is created.
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> Stone: Once that happens, we can have people from W3C members and Invited Experts.
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> Stone: Once WG is created, people participate.
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> Stone: At some point, we need to figure out when the face-to-face is going to be. Candidate for next face-to-face is IIW.
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> Stone: We should ask them if the way we organized was too disruptive.
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> Andrieu: What Project VRM has done is sequestered Monday 
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> Andrieu: So disruption is minimized... Monday or Friday might be good synergy.
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> gkellogg: One consideration is IIW is always here.
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> Andrieu: The next Rebooting is going to be week prior in Paris, then here.
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> gkellogg: The meta question is the utility of having people involved in IIW w/ some participation - we've benefited from the exposure.
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> Richard: I agree with that, we've learned a lot - you need to go to them, or bring them to us, or do it virtually. We should put it down as a definitely consider... inviting some of them to come to our WG is another dimension of that.
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> gkellogg: In past IIWs, there have been W3C staff to do outreach.
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> Richard: We can bring some sessions back to IIW
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> Matt: That's certainly more in line w/ IIW - if we can integrate more seamlessly into their agenda, do a WG session -doesn't have to be either or.
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> heuer: IIW is about starting things off - what can we do w/ IIW but then report/build on that - self-sovereign movement helps us a bit.
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> ShaneM: We were talking about architecture and use cases and big picture thinking, which is different from day to day grind of specs. W3C does IG to do incubation... the IG or CG could do stuff at IIW.
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> Richard: I would be willing to provide conference facility - ETS in Princeton. San Antonio - there are other opportunities.
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> Stone: Advancing to Recommendation
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> Stone: once the WG is in flight, the goal is to produce a technical recommendation - there are six phases of this... levels of mateurity - FPWD, WD, CR, PR, REC.
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> Stone: As we look into 2017, the bulk of the work is about the WD - this year, coming up, is about getting first published working draft done. Get feedback from stakeholders.
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> Stone: Getting to FPWD - 
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> manu explains the FPWD process
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> ShaneM: Testing is a bit unusual, we're not really building anything - it's about a data model and a vocabulary - no protocol/api nothing to exercise.
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> Richard: So what's an example of a test we can do?
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> ShaneM: You can evaluate the implementation - a JSON-LD context that defines your vocabulary - you make sure it works interoperably... another part is doing isomorphic transformations - take the data and transform it via RDF - and then transform it back.
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> ShaneM: Those are the two ways you can check the data model that the W3C Management accepts. You have to prove that your thing is implemented.
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> gkellogg: on the other hand, most vocabularies have logical consistencies - make sure your vocabularies are consistent.
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> korb: We could do it as partners... send and receive credentials.
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> gkellogg: specifications make normative requirements.
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> gkellogg: test suites should limit themselves to testing normative requirements.
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> ShaneM: We did this with web annotation work recently
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> ShaneM: Another thing w/ vocabulary testing - how do we ensure that all the terms in a vocabulary are needed and used - how do we make sure that happens.
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> ShaneM: In that context, they're going to see if all terms are used.
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> Andrieu: You could have verified claims for all of your use cases.
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> korb: We can just use HTTP to pass.
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> gkellogg: we can create examples that are serialized, make sure they round trip to data model, and that they're consistent.
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> Richard: Would that teach us anything useful
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> gkellogg: It taught us something for web annotations - so yes, it works. It caused changes that fixed things.
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> Stone: We'd take a number of credentials across a number of industries, render them into the data model, see if it works.
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> gkellogg: One way to do it is to mark up use case document that takes items out of use cases and statements match... 
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> ShaneM: Is the purpose is to get over the hurdle... if it is, it's a waste of time. we want to make sure this is something that's useful over time.
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> Andrieu: There will be parties that will want to evaluate it, they will want to take their needs and map it to them.
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> Richard: There are groups of people that want to produce a transcript - we require before you unload payload, you have to  pay something for it.
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> Richard: You can't just take my credential and dump my credential to anybody - one of the validations, how do you validate it in the transfer - but you don't transfer the keys.
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> Stone: Which credentials can be composed or not.
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> manu: Other groups have been successful doing this, we should pay attention to them.
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> Stone: There have been questions around expiration, 
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> Andrieu: You're talking about a link contract - so we need a hook in there, but it's more than just vocabulary
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> manu: Two types of testing - testing for utility and testing for interoperability.
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> gkellogg: There is required input from internationalization groups
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> ShaneM: There are inputs from internationalization, security, accessibility, privacy.
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> ShaneM: That CR review process - CR means "We think we are done" - we are going to go through a test cycle, proving that we are interoperable.
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> gkellogg: Many groups have made the mistake of waiting until the end to do their test suite, we should have an understanding of interoperability
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> korb: Is part of the test signature testing?
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> gkellogg: we just need to prove that you can do multiple types
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> Richard: Not much that needs to be done there, right
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> gkellogg: well, verifying a composed claim - there is some technical questions that are raised.
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> ShaneM: One of the things you want to remember, these tests - the purpose of them - not to determine whether implementation works - implementations conform to the spec - they all work the same way.
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> korb: Would you submit the data model differently based on one signature vs. another?
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> ShaneM: No
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> gkellogg: no - we need some demonstration that something can serve the purpose of the signature here - 
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> korb: It goes to the integrity of the data model, 
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> Andrieu: You can imagine a signature method that doesn't work w/ the data.
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> gkellogg: You can think of a case where you compose things down that don't work.
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> Richard: There are people that design how competencies are grouped, those are more easily composable - those elemental components - who is verifying that the combination of those means anything.
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> stone: We should be very careful of taking on the task of validating issuer and composition - we don't care if compiled credential has value in marketplace.
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> stone: From a market value perspective, if it's issued, we have met our goal if it's verified.
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> Topic: VCF2F Day Two Agenda Bash
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> https://docs.google.com/document/d/1uYDRcHs_EOpJzezJerKnKT4Grni1sFLX2nRp7zlq2BE/edit#
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> stone reviews the agenda
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> stone: We start w/ agenda review
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> stone: Then go into long term concerns
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> stone: Then a break
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> stone: Then a deep dive on data models
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> stone: Then lunch
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> stone: Then digital signatures, then we're done
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> ShaneM: That sounds great, it'd be nice to look at implementations
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> ShaneM: It would be nice to look at implementations if we have extra time.
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> Andrieu: How does updating the use cases fit into this model?
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> ShaneM: A CG or a IG can be responsible for taking care of use cases. Sometimes its good to be done outside so you can do more blue sky thinking.
[Thu 00:00:00] <manu> End of Meeting
