[2021-03-10T17:59:25.773Z]  <heathervescent>    Welcome back!
[2021-03-10T17:59:49.866Z]  <heathervescent>    Agenda: https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-credentials/2021Mar/0027
[2021-03-10T18:00:01.124Z]  <ewingson>  present+
[2021-03-10T18:00:15.928Z]  <rhiaro>    present+
[2021-03-10T18:00:29.108Z]  <KjetilK>   present+
[2021-03-10T18:00:30.164Z]  <Michael_Herman_(Trusted_Digital_Web)>  Present+
[2021-03-10T18:00:39.074Z]  <DavidC>    present +
[2021-03-10T18:00:45.958Z]  <Ivan>  present+
[2021-03-10T18:00:51.701Z]  <burn>  present+
[2021-03-10T18:00:58.533Z]  <heathervescent>    present+
[2021-03-10T18:01:14.546Z]  <Pat>   present+
[2021-03-10T18:01:19.037Z]  <justinwb>  present+
[2021-03-10T18:01:42.902Z]  <dmitriz>   present+
[2021-03-10T18:01:45.448Z]  <acoburn>   present+
[2021-03-10T18:01:45.967Z]  <Matthieu>  present+
[2021-03-10T18:01:49.585Z]  <csarven>   present+
[2021-03-10T18:01:50.513Z]  <elf-pavlik>    present+
[2021-03-10T18:02:04.627Z]  <TallTed>   present+
[2021-03-10T18:02:23.451Z]  <Phil.L>    present+
[2021-03-10T18:02:27.665Z]  <mprorock>  presenmt+
[2021-03-10T18:02:40.940Z]  <mprorock>  present+
[2021-03-10T18:02:43.044Z]  <elf-pavlik>    elf Pavlik <https://elf-pavlik.hackers4peace.net/>
[2021-03-10T18:02:43.451Z]  <Jan>   present+
[2021-03-10T18:02:47.993Z]  <econnell>  present+
[2021-03-10T18:02:57.002Z]  <Ralph> present+
[2021-03-10T18:03:10.352Z]  <agropper>  present+
[2021-03-10T18:03:19.466Z]  <KjetilK>   Kjetil Kjernsmo: <https://www.linkedin.com/in/kjekje/> <http://kjetil.kjernsmo.net/>
[2021-03-10T18:03:20.257Z]  <dlongley>  present+
[2021-03-10T18:03:23.447Z]  <manu>  present+
[2021-03-10T18:03:37.888Z]  <Matthieu>  Matthieu Bosquet <https://github.com/matthieubosquet/>
[2021-03-10T18:03:48.183Z]  <heathervescent>    Agenda: https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-credentials/2021Mar/0027
[2021-03-10T18:03:54.305Z]  <justinwb>  Justin Bingham <https://www.linkedin.com/in/justinwb/>
[2021-03-10T18:04:17.893Z]  <Liam_Broza>    present+
[2021-03-10T18:05:14.715Z]  <wayne> present+
[2021-03-10T18:05:15.041Z]  <acoburn>   Aaron Coburn <https://github.com/acoburn>
[2021-03-10T18:05:21.996Z]  <bblfish_>  present +
[2021-03-10T18:05:35.165Z]  <Michael_Boyd>  present+
[2021-03-10T18:05:37.044Z]  <Simone_Ravaioli_(Digitary)>    present+
[2021-03-10T18:05:43.690Z]  <bblfish_>  https://bblfish.net/ or https://co-operating.systems/
[2021-03-10T18:05:47.856Z]  <Kristina>  present+
[2021-03-10T18:06:07.477Z]  <Tomislav_Markovski>    present+
[2021-03-10T18:06:10.234Z]  <Jan>   https://janschill.net/profile/card#me or https://www.linkedin.com/in/jan-schill-161b66a4/
[2021-03-10T18:06:12.527Z]  <robbie.jones@forgerock.com>    robbie jones, forgerock+
[2021-03-10T18:06:17.470Z]  <robbie.jones@forgerock.com>    present+
[2021-03-10T18:06:18.629Z]  <rhiaro>    scribe: rhiaro
[2021-03-10T18:06:35.311Z]  <ewingson>  Matthias Evering https://github.com/ewingson https://testpro.solidweb.org/profile/card#me
[2021-03-10T18:07:08.371Z]  <heathervescent>    http://irc.w3.org/?channels=ccg
[2021-03-10T18:07:28.731Z]  <rhiaro>    Topic: Solid presentations
[2021-03-10T18:09:44.427Z]  <Michael_Herman_(Trusted_Digital_Web)>  Here's a Decentralized Twitter app scenario we're using to validate the Confidential Storage specification ...called Dewitter: https://hyperonomy.com/2021/03/05/trusted-content-storage-tcs-stack-decentralized-twitter-the-dewitter-use-case/
[2021-03-10T18:10:02.735Z]  <Michael_Herman_(Trusted_Digital_Web)>  Potentially useful for the SOLID folks as well
[2021-03-10T18:07:55.580Z]  <rhiaro>    csarven: thanks for the earlier session and sharing your work, the tip of all the great work that you have
[2021-03-10T18:08:04.973Z]  <rhiaro>    ... and thanks again to the CCG for organising
[2021-03-10T18:08:14.581Z]  <rhiaro>    ... on behalf of everyone I hope there will be a lot more of these meetings
[2021-03-10T18:08:18.730Z]  <rhiaro>    ... a lot of shared interest
[2021-03-10T18:08:39.019Z]  <rhiaro>    ... A brief intro.. I'm Sarven Capadisli, working in web standards for about 15 years mostly through w3c
[2021-03-10T18:08:55.968Z]  <rhiaro>    ... over the years our paths have crossed multiple times
[2021-03-10T18:09:21.236Z]  <rhiaro>    ... I've been focussing on the solid project since 2015 at MIT as part of my research
[2021-03-10T18:09:28.391Z]  <rhiaro>    ... I worked with rhiaro, dmitriz and timbl
[2021-03-10T18:09:37.560Z]  <rhiaro>    ... as part of the early incubation period of 'solid' that we know today
[2021-03-10T18:09:50.200Z]  <rhiaro>    ... we've been focussing on research and developing servers and applications
[2021-03-10T18:10:02.231Z]  <rhiaro>    ... we managed to transition some of the work, eg. Linked Data Notifications, through the w3c social web wg
[2021-03-10T18:10:12.410Z]  <rhiaro>    ... LDN is quite central to the activitypub specification and the fediverse, as well as solid
[2021-03-10T18:10:32.139Z]  <rhiaro>    ... the Solid CG.. it is relatively new, since 2018
[2021-03-10T18:10:41.280Z]  <rhiaro>    ... the underlying work goes back further, 15+ years
[2021-03-10T18:10:48.632Z]  <rhiaro>    ... there are about 200 members, we work through github and gitter
[2021-03-10T18:10:49.943Z]  <rhiaro>    ... and have a forum
[2021-03-10T18:10:53.811Z]  <cel>   present+
[2021-03-10T18:11:00.300Z]  <rhiaro>    ... there are regular topical meetings covering authentication, authz, interoperability
[2021-03-10T18:11:03.989Z]  <rhiaro>    ... and others
[2021-03-10T18:11:08.952Z]  <heathervescent>    present+
[2021-03-10T18:11:09.768Z]  <rhiaro>    ... everyone is welcome to join the meetings
[2021-03-10T18:11:15.671Z]  <rhiaro>    ... they happen throughout the week, there are three right now
[2021-03-10T18:11:21.197Z]  <rhiaro>    ... I'll share the links
[2021-03-10T18:11:42.313Z]  <kezike>    present+
[2021-03-10T18:11:49.528Z]  <rhiaro>    ... our technical reports, repos, work items are here
[2021-03-10T18:11:52.874Z]  <csarven>   https://solidproject.org/TR/
[2021-03-10T18:12:13.363Z]  <rhiaro>    ... The CG emerged out of collaborations from many CGs and WGs
[2021-03-10T18:12:28.864Z]  <rhiaro>    ... in line with the initiative on decentralising the web and empowering individuals to control their data
[2021-03-10T18:12:43.635Z]  <rhiaro>    ... Solid draws a lot of background from the semantic web, linked data, read write web, webid, social web
[2021-03-10T18:12:48.970Z]  <rhiaro>    ... a lot of existing work we're extending
[2021-03-10T18:12:52.507Z]  <rhiaro>    ... the name for it is now 'solid'
[2021-03-10T18:12:58.600Z]  <rhiaro>    ... one way of putting the work together in a meaningful way
[2021-03-10T18:13:09.650Z]  <rhiaro>    ... in the group we thought it'd be best to share quick introductions to key components of the ecosystem
[2021-03-10T18:13:22.057Z]  <rhiaro>    ... and use the second half of the session for open discussions, and identify areas to collaborate
[2021-03-10T18:13:41.549Z]  <rhiaro>    ... timbl will give an overview on the solid vision
[2021-03-10T18:13:49.935Z]  <rhiaro>    ... aaron will introduce solid oidc spec for auth
[2021-03-10T18:13:54.889Z]  <rhiaro>    ... justin will follow on with solid apps and interop
[2021-03-10T18:14:13.631Z]  <rhiaro>    ... bblfish will give us a perspective on key aspects and history of solid, touching on webid, authz and potential integration with the credentials stack
[2021-03-10T18:14:20.899Z]  <rhiaro>    ... I'll hand over to timbl
[2021-03-10T18:14:20.899Z]  <rhiaro>    Topic: Tim Berners-Lee on Solid
[2021-03-10T18:14:32.446Z]  <rhiaro>    timbl: good to see you all!
[2021-03-10T18:14:43.628Z]  <rhiaro>    ... good to be at a meeting of two w3c groups
[2021-03-10T18:14:56.037Z]  <rhiaro>    ... Solid comes from lots of places
[2021-03-10T18:15:06.736Z]  <rhiaro>    ... when I explain it I tend to find I start off in different places depending on who I'm explaining to
[2021-03-10T18:15:12.508Z]  <rhiaro>    ... you've heard lots of people talking about decentralising the web
[2021-03-10T18:15:15.028Z]  <rhiaro>    ... its not about blockchain
[2021-03-10T18:15:26.364Z]  <rhiaro>    ... its about going back.. the web was exciting when everyone could have their own website
[2021-03-10T18:15:38.630Z]  <rhiaro>    ... if you were sufficiently geeky you buy a computer, plug it in, and you can blog and link to other peoples blogs
[2021-03-10T18:15:45.579Z]  <rhiaro>    ... the excitement of the time was very much of being individually empowered
[2021-03-10T18:15:55.391Z]  <rhiaro>    ... and the wider unintended consequences were generally good
[2021-03-10T18:16:01.427Z]  <rhiaro>    ... you spend your time working on your blog, and link to other nice blogs
[2021-03-10T18:16:17.406Z]  <rhiaro>    ... the result was the blogosphere became an amazing place you felt privileged to be a part, and you got more value out than  you put in
[2021-03-10T18:16:21.112Z]  <rhiaro>    ... the long tail has now gone
[2021-03-10T18:16:28.489Z]  <rhiaro>    ... now a lot of people are not on the web, but one single social network
[2021-03-10T18:16:43.627Z]  <rhiaro>    ... a bunch of projects which have always felt, and people, a spirit to get back to that virtuous circle, that feeling of empowerment
[2021-03-10T18:16:48.659Z]  <rhiaro>    ... where I'm on the web not as an alternative to the tv
[2021-03-10T18:16:56.123Z]  <rhiaro>    ... and infinite scroll my life
[2021-03-10T18:17:06.741Z]  <rhiaro>    ... lets make it where i'm empowered, tackle problems, work with people on things, and have fun, and write music and whatever
[2021-03-10T18:17:10.194Z]  <rhiaro>    ... and be empowered
[2021-03-10T18:17:17.420Z]  <rhiaro>    ... solid to an extent is just Web
[2021-03-10T18:17:23.642Z]  <rhiaro>    ... but it's not so much a website
[2021-03-10T18:17:28.939Z]  <rhiaro>    ... everybody has got a database
[2021-03-10T18:17:50.979Z]  <rhiaro>    ... you can do picture like things on it, and edit html files, but also any data file is regarded as a database
[2021-03-10T18:18:13.854Z]  <rhiaro>    ... whereas with slower moving synchronising things like dropbox you can sync data files.. with solid, we split the world so we've got a fast protocol with apps on the top and the storage (pod) on the bottom
[2021-03-10T18:18:19.776Z]  <rhiaro>    ... the solid protocol defines the boundary between them
[2021-03-10T18:18:28.336Z]  <rhiaro>    ... the solid protocol allows fast interactions and collaborative interactions
[2021-03-10T18:18:49.848Z]  <rhiaro>    ... If I'm typing something into a note or dragging something around a map, while I'm doing that every time I move the pointer on the map the app sends back to the solid pod every update
[2021-03-10T18:18:59.413Z]  <rhiaro>    ... and if you're looking at the same app your app will connect to the server and get high speed notifications
[2021-03-10T18:19:09.291Z]  <rhiaro>    ... so that we are in sync and can collaborate efficiently
[2021-03-10T18:19:12.348Z]  <rhiaro>    ... with whichever solid app it is
[2021-03-10T18:19:29.329Z]  <rhiaro>    ... we've filled in the blue sky folks, tried to think about what sort of app it was, and the trouble is it's not an app its' a platform
[2021-03-10T18:19:33.660Z]  <rhiaro>    ... you can put lots of apps on top of it
[2021-03-10T18:19:38.628Z]  <rhiaro>    ... we're aiming that the apps should be fast, compatible
[2021-03-10T18:19:51.135Z]  <rhiaro>    ... for every type of app means we have to application standards for contacts, for photos, for metadata, for playlists, etc
[2021-03-10T18:19:56.293Z]  <rhiaro>    ... a lot out there already
[2021-03-10T18:20:02.553Z]  <rhiaro>    ... it's linked data
[2021-03-10T18:20:10.767Z]  <rhiaro>    ... most files on a solid server are turtle
[2021-03-10T18:20:15.042Z]  <rhiaro>    ... turtle is like json
[2021-03-10T18:20:20.380Z]  <rhiaro>    ... the punctuation is different
[2021-03-10T18:20:23.633Z]  <rhiaro>    ... it is natively rdf
[2021-03-10T18:20:28.278Z]  <rhiaro>    ... easy to write rdf in turtle and hopefully to read
[2021-03-10T18:20:37.346Z]  <rhiaro>    ... a lot of our apps .. you can also use jsonld
[2021-03-10T18:20:43.632Z]  <rhiaro>    ... equivalent and compatible and interchangeable
[2021-03-10T18:20:51.572Z]  <rhiaro>    ... the solid protocol first added single signon for the entire world
[2021-03-10T18:21:00.436Z]  <rhiaro>    ... if you want to be able to collaborate with other people you've got to be able to share anything with anybody
[2021-03-10T18:21:02.175Z]  <rhiaro>    ...t hats' the goal
[2021-03-10T18:21:08.629Z]  <rhiaro>    ... at the moment you can only share facebook things with facebook people
[2021-03-10T18:21:13.866Z]  <rhiaro>    ... the goal of solid is to be able to share anything with anybody
[2021-03-10T18:21:19.668Z]  <rhiaro>    ... whenever someone has their id we can put them in any group
[2021-03-10T18:21:25.327Z]  <rhiaro>    ... anyone can publish a group, just a list of people by their IDs
[2021-03-10T18:21:30.584Z]  <rhiaro>    ... everybody's ID starts with https:
[2021-03-10T18:21:41.704Z]  <rhiaro>    ... the fundamental principles like people and orgs have webids which are just https urls
[2021-03-10T18:21:44.557Z]  <rhiaro>    ...everything else does too
[2021-03-10T18:21:45.953Z]  <rhiaro>    ... a meeting
[2021-03-10T18:21:48.634Z]  <rhiaro>    ... one message in a chat
[2021-03-10T18:21:51.794Z]  <rhiaro>    ... the action of liking a message in a chat
[2021-03-10T18:21:56.208Z]  <rhiaro>    ... all have urls that start with https
[2021-03-10T18:21:59.041Z]  <rhiaro>    ... nice and simple
[2021-03-10T18:22:08.915Z]  <rhiaro>    ... we started off historically with webid tls
[2021-03-10T18:22:18.632Z]  <rhiaro>    ... you had to log in with a certificate in your browser
[2021-03-10T18:22:23.632Z]  <rhiaro>    ... i like that, it was secure, no passwords
[2021-03-10T18:22:29.706Z]  <rhiaro>    ... now we're oidc connect compatible
[2021-03-10T18:22:42.118Z]  <rhiaro>    ... you can log into any solid server with an identity from any solid id provider
[2021-03-10T18:22:51.375Z]  <rhiaro>    ... if you get a solid account you get an id and a pod at the same time, that's the simplest way
[2021-03-10T18:22:58.840Z]  <rhiaro>    ... or you can have several ids, tell people or not tell people they're the same
[2021-03-10T18:23:13.885Z]  <rhiaro>    ... two interesting cases are solid id which has an anon avatar and a pseudonym
[2021-03-10T18:23:20.236Z]  <rhiaro>    ... you can mint a new id which is not linked to your existing id at all
[2021-03-10T18:23:35.312Z]  <rhiaro>    ... all of the people on this call are professional, yours is going to be more like how people use linked in, you're proud of it, there's only one of them
[2021-03-10T18:23:38.632Z]  <rhiaro>    ... you want people to know
[2021-03-10T18:23:43.783Z]  <rhiaro>    ... we want people to give out their id
[2021-03-10T18:24:00.941Z]  <rhiaro>    ... people can scan a qr code and be taken to their one professional id which has all their reputation, their papers, etc
[2021-03-10T18:24:12.304Z]  <rhiaro>    ... when you comment then the public chat is tied to that reputation, so they're bound to be respectful
[2021-03-10T18:24:16.024Z]  <rhiaro>    ... some people will have lots of ids
[2021-03-10T18:24:18.865Z]  <rhiaro>    ... several pods as well
[2021-03-10T18:24:23.949Z]  <rhiaro>    ... one for work, one for home, one for each of your works
[2021-03-10T18:24:41.867Z]  <rhiaro>    ... I can't overestimate the lumpiness of the solid component
[2021-03-10T18:24:52.071Z]  <rhiaro>    ... with blockhain all the nodes share the same stuff and you have to agree on running the system
[2021-03-10T18:25:11.270Z]  <rhiaro>    ... put the same effort in to keeping it running, whether you're a bank or a script kiddie making a game or to buy a candybar or something
[2021-03-10T18:25:46.514Z]  <rhiaro>    ... whereas solid, you have several pods yourself, some are free, some are not, maybe the bank will give you a solid lock box which is expensive because you got it from the bank but they take care of you and you store things and have agreed who will take over that pod when you die
[2021-03-10T18:26:01.758Z]  <rhiaro>    ... pods of different shapes, different speeds, reliability, different servers, but all running the solid protocol
[2021-03-10T18:26:10.251Z]  <rhiaro>    ... same login, same access control system
[2021-03-10T18:26:17.270Z]  <rhiaro>    ... we have two versions of access control at the moment, one is WAC
[2021-03-10T18:26:21.262Z]  <rhiaro>    ... been around for years
[2021-03-10T18:26:38.896Z]  <rhiaro>    ... another called Access control policies, which are more powerful, eg. for if you're a healthcare system and want lots of control
[2021-03-10T18:26:50.889Z]  <rhiaro>    ... the protocol is single signon, common access control, and the read-write web protocol
[2021-03-10T18:27:08.645Z]  <rhiaro>    ... we have a roadmap
[2021-03-10T18:22:02.882Z]  <Drummond>  Any plans for supporting DIDs?
[2021-03-10T18:22:25.570Z]  <dmitriz>   @Drummond - there's interest, yeah. see https://github.com/solid/specification/issues/217
[2021-03-10T18:22:32.289Z]  <justinwb>  yup
[2021-03-10T18:29:24.522Z]  <timbl> https://solidos.solidcommunity.net/public/Roadmap/Tasks/index.ttl#this
[2021-03-10T18:29:41.449Z]  <rhiaro>    ... link to the roadmap ^
[2021-03-10T18:29:55.359Z]  <rhiaro>    ... for the whole solid ecosystem
[2021-03-10T18:30:31.919Z]  <rhiaro>    ... the ecosystem is designed into layers
[2021-03-10T18:30:39.149Z]  <rhiaro>    ... apps is part of the whole ecosystem
[2021-03-10T18:30:46.710Z]  <rhiaro>    ... developer tools should be another within the ecosystem
[2021-03-10T18:30:55.757Z]  <rhiaro>    ... the core functionality, the extended functionality, are what we call the solid OS
[2021-03-10T18:31:21.450Z]  <rhiaro>    ... my feeling is that when real people use this it's got all the functionality of a phone or a mac... the goal is that it's useable by real people
[2021-03-10T18:31:31.292Z]  <rhiaro>    ... when you get a pod you get a beautiful OS which is easy to use and intuitive
[2021-03-10T18:31:43.926Z]  <rhiaro>    ... easy to do simple things, and not to difficult to do more involved things
[2021-03-10T18:32:09.455Z]  <rhiaro>    ... verifiable credentials is in there
[2021-03-10T18:32:15.561Z]  <agropper>  q+ to ask how my Pod relates to my health record at a hospital? Does the hospital have a separate pod for them or for me?
[2021-03-10T18:32:33.758Z]  <rhiaro>    ... we call it in progress because people have started playing with it
[2021-03-10T18:32:41.465Z]  <rhiaro>    ... using VCs is really important
[2021-03-10T18:33:04.102Z]  <rhiaro>    ... we'll use this tracker to keep track of our progress and link in attachments, documents, implementations
[2021-03-10T18:33:19.011Z]  <rhiaro>    ... this tracker is a solid app
[2021-03-10T18:33:32.399Z]  <rhiaro>    ... the office has a different version of this tracker
[2021-03-10T18:33:39.501Z]  <rhiaro>    ... for triaging all the things people ask me to do
[2021-03-10T18:33:48.632Z]  <rhiaro>    ... this is where we prioritize all the things inside the solid project
[2021-03-10T18:33:58.810Z]  <rhiaro>    ... this is where VCs is currently in our roadmap
[2021-03-10T18:34:09.984Z]  <rhiaro>    ... one other view which might be useful is the view by status
[2021-03-10T18:34:23.631Z]  <rhiaro>    ... the part of the ecosystem it is, you see stuff about communities to be done this month
[2021-03-10T18:34:53.404Z]  <rhiaro>    ... there's a huge amount to do
[2021-03-10T18:35:05.400Z]  <rhiaro>    ... because we've now got the servers working we can turn attention building apps and operating system
[2021-03-10T18:35:22.265Z]  <rhiaro>    ... a lot of the low hanging fruit for getting governments to give pods to their citizens work really nicely with verifiable credentails
[2021-03-10T18:35:43.630Z]  <rhiaro>    ... if we have VCs we can use it for putting peoples driving licenses, VCs about age which don't reveal other thing, and digitally sign all the apps out there
[2021-03-10T18:35:52.540Z]  <rhiaro>    ... nested and linked webs of trust where VCs are the technology for signing things
[2021-03-10T18:36:05.201Z]  <rhiaro>    ... solid links are the way of managing my playlist of apps that I recommend, for example
[2021-03-10T18:36:09.329Z]  <rhiaro>    ... then sign that playlist
[2021-03-10T18:36:27.509Z]  <rhiaro>    ... and the playlist will contain a hash of the app or the id of the person who made the app and anyone loading the app can know it was signed by the author
[2021-03-10T18:37:01.323Z]  <rhiaro>    ... lots of early apps, demonstrations with VCs for places where a benevolent organization like a health system or part of a government wants to give people apps or pods so they can be enabled
[2021-03-10T18:37:16.480Z]  <rhiaro>    ... So VCs are a part, but we have a huge amount of stuff to do
[2021-03-10T18:33:23.353Z]  <csarven>   https://solidos.solidcommunity.net/public/Roadmap/Tasks/
[2021-03-10T18:35:23.663Z]  <justinwb>  re: agropper - in the practical real world use case, the health system can either host a pod for you, (i.e. making the data available to you through the solid protocol, and putting it in your control), or you could link it to one you control externally. you can have N physical pods as part of your "virtual pod" associated with a given identity
[2021-03-10T18:37:16.480Z]  <rhiaro>    Topic: Solid OIDC
[2021-03-10T18:38:18.963Z]  <acoburn>   Solid OIDC https://solid.github.io/authentication-panel/solid-oidc/
[2021-03-10T18:38:43.899Z]  <rhiaro>    acoburn: I'm an engineer at inrupt where I spend time implementing the solid protocol
[2021-03-10T18:38:51.608Z]  <rhiaro>    ... I work on the authentication panel where we're defining this auth protocol
[2021-03-10T18:38:56.617Z]  <rhiaro>    ... thank you for letting us take over this meeting
[2021-03-10T18:39:07.236Z]  <rhiaro>    ... and for the presentations this morning, there's a lot of overlap
[2021-03-10T18:39:14.673Z]  <rhiaro>    ... especially things like DIDs
[2021-03-10T18:39:30.775Z]  <rhiaro>    ... for solid, all of the things tim described rely on a globally unique authentication system such that you can have globally unique identifiers
[2021-03-10T18:39:39.115Z]  <rhiaro>    ... you want to be able to log in through your own authourization system
[2021-03-10T18:39:46.481Z]  <rhiaro>    ... what we have described is something that uses openid connect
[2021-03-10T18:39:59.415Z]  <rhiaro>    ... at a high level what we want to do is build on oidc in a way that works with and builds on those existing implementations and protocols
[2021-03-10T18:40:05.590Z]  <rhiaro>    ... rather than trying to depart from that and do something completely separate
[2021-03-10T18:40:16.539Z]  <rhiaro>    ... theres a lot of tooling out there that is mature and robust, we want to work with that rather than building out a new auth system
[2021-03-10T18:40:35.113Z]  <rhiaro>    ... solid oidc takes openid connect and builds a few additional pieces on top of that in ways that work with the current oidc spec
[2021-03-10T18:40:42.347Z]  <rhiaro>    ... I'm not going to go into detail, you can read about it
[2021-03-10T18:40:47.300Z]  <rhiaro>    ... but at a high level a couple of points are
[2021-03-10T18:40:52.240Z]  <rhiaro>    ... access tokens are defines as jwts
[2021-03-10T18:41:03.633Z]  <rhiaro>    ... a solid pod is going to interact with those access tokens as jwts
[2021-03-10T18:41:05.768Z]  <rhiaro>    ... there's a webid claim
[2021-03-10T18:41:31.201Z]  <rhiaro>    ... the claim tells your solid pod who you are and that claim is something that is an https url that dereferences to an rdf document, and that doc contains additional metadata that can be used for validation of the token itself
[2021-03-10T18:41:35.724Z]  <rhiaro>    ... this is the key area of overlap with DIDs
[2021-03-10T18:41:43.632Z]  <rhiaro>    ... lets continue conversation between our two groups
[2021-03-10T18:41:54.704Z]  <rhiaro>    ... there are other parts of this related to proof of possession
[2021-03-10T18:42:16.165Z]  <rhiaro>    ... one of the challenges with a really decentralised system that uses access tokens, especially bearer tokens, is if you send the token ot a malicious server it can be passed on and unwittingly give away access to your data
[2021-03-10T18:42:28.742Z]  <rhiaro>    ... we use dpop at the application layer, which is a way of doing token binding for these access tokens
[2021-03-10T18:42:33.416Z]  <rhiaro>    ... it's in a draft spec
[2021-03-10T18:42:38.638Z]  <rhiaro>    ... we can go into more detail if there's need
[2021-03-10T18:42:44.344Z]  <rhiaro>    ... at a high level that's really what we're doing with solid oidc
[2021-03-10T18:42:54.936Z]  <rhiaro>    ... happy to take questions afterwards
[2021-03-10T18:42:02.664Z]  <Drummond>  Any plans to support the DIDComm protocol being developed at DIF? https://identity.foundation/working-groups/did-comm.html
[2021-03-10T18:42:27.980Z]  <elf-pavlik>    https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/draft-fett-oauth-dpop/
[2021-03-10T18:42:54.923Z]  <rhiaro>    Topic: Data in Solid
[2021-03-10T18:43:49.844Z]  <rhiaro>    justinwb: the current state of the world that we're all aware of ... the user uses applications on their device, interfacing with services that are little silos
[2021-03-10T18:43:53.626Z]  <rhiaro>    ... your data is in those silos
[2021-03-10T18:44:05.635Z]  <rhiaro>    ... its' very hard for that person to make use of that data because of all the walls between them. integration is unlikely
[2021-03-10T18:44:27.338Z]  <rhiaro>    ... the vision of solid as tim said earlier is to give people control of their data, break all of those dots down into a personal online data stores so they can choose the apps and services they want to use
[2021-03-10T18:44:42.410Z]  <rhiaro>    ... where is that physically stored? this view is a virtual pod. It could be made up of a number of physical pods that is transparent to the services and apps in use
[2021-03-10T18:44:47.512Z]  <rhiaro>    ... ultimately we want to shift the equation
[2021-03-10T18:44:57.577Z]  <rhiaro>    ... so different apps and services are reading and writing data from the store that's in control of the user
[2021-03-10T18:45:02.102Z]  <rhiaro>    ... the user is ultimately in control of how that gets used
[2021-03-10T18:45:12.255Z]  <rhiaro>    ... the services get the benefit of having overlaps in the data they're interfacing with
[2021-03-10T18:44:36.462Z]  <Kristina>  Have you looked at Self-Issued OpenID provider work at OpenID Foundation? wrt using DID/VCs with OIDC (it does not uses WebID tho)
[2021-03-10T18:45:21.948Z]  <dmitriz>   @Kristina - we're tracking SIOP (and DID-related siop work) on the Solid authentication panel.
[2021-03-10T18:45:22.225Z]  <rhiaro>    ... if they can make a strong proposition to the user about why they should have it, they can get access to more data
[2021-03-10T18:45:30.934Z]  <rhiaro>    ... that immediately introduces some challenges you have to solve for to do this practically
[2021-03-10T18:45:46.648Z]  <rhiaro>    ... the goals we've had in the interoperability panel is to seamless let apps read and write the same data
[2021-03-10T18:45:58.802Z]  <rhiaro>    ... different apps written by people who aren't working together, who don't have knowledge of how the other apps work
[2021-03-10T18:46:05.389Z]  <rhiaro>    ... just that they want to read and write the same data without breaking it
[2021-03-10T18:46:07.094Z]  <rhiaro>    ... hard on its own
[2021-03-10T18:46:13.632Z]  <rhiaro>    ... with security and collaborative use it becomes even harder
[2021-03-10T18:46:19.715Z]  <rhiaro>    ... you want to make this easy for people to use
[2021-03-10T18:46:31.272Z]  <rhiaro>    ... you want people to be able to safely share even complex data like health data or financial with other people and applications
[2021-03-10T18:46:34.461Z]  <rhiaro>    ... in a very simple intuitive way
[2021-03-10T18:46:43.683Z]  <rhiaro>    ... you don't want to require them to have to think about how to organise their data to be able to do that
[2021-03-10T18:46:59.624Z]  <rhiaro>    ... if you're on your phone you don't want to be making those choices, just use the services and give access to the data transparently
[2021-03-10T18:47:10.571Z]  <rhiaro>    ... and you should be able to grant exactly the right access that that app needs every time
[2021-03-10T18:47:21.188Z]  <rhiaro>    ... a lot of the work towards this over the last couple of years is in a couple of specs
[2021-03-10T18:47:25.876Z]  <rhiaro>    ... shape tree and app interoperability spec
[2021-03-10T18:47:34.158Z]  <rhiaro>    ... shape trees is a way to model information so it can be interoperable
[2021-03-10T18:47:45.455Z]  <rhiaro>    ... the interop spec is about providing patterns for actors in the ecosystem to do that exchange in a constructive way
[2021-03-10T18:47:53.634Z]  <rhiaro>    ... easiest to explain this with a quick workflow
[2021-03-10T18:48:03.892Z]  <rhiaro>    ... just a couple of things we're doing, you can join some of our meetings each week
[2021-03-10T18:48:10.392Z]  <rhiaro>    ... I'll start joining confidential storage discussion
[2021-03-10T18:48:13.913Z]  <rhiaro>    ... Bob has a bunch of data in his pod
[2021-03-10T18:48:21.481Z]  <rhiaro>    ... the first thing that the interop spec tries to focus son is data registration
[2021-03-10T18:48:29.529Z]  <rhiaro>    ... a pattern for how you store your data in a pod so you don't have to think about how to store it
[2021-03-10T18:48:48.823Z]  <rhiaro>    ... we want to work towards flatter data organisation
[2021-03-10T18:49:00.224Z]  <rhiaro>    ... you don't want to think about where to put things. You need some consistent pattern to apply in those cases
[2021-03-10T18:49:04.896Z]  <rhiaro>    ... you want to make it as simple as possible
[2021-03-10T18:49:08.631Z]  <rhiaro>    ... so store it based on what it is
[2021-03-10T18:49:18.626Z]  <rhiaro>    ... you have instances of these things - calendars, events, projects, stored in collections or containers
[2021-03-10T18:49:25.393Z]  <rhiaro>    ... these data, each one is a thing a person would understand
[2021-03-10T18:49:33.715Z]  <rhiaro>    ... you understand 'project' even if you don't understand down below
[2021-03-10T18:49:47.085Z]  <rhiaro>    ... and makes it easier to validate that something is conformant to a given schema or shape if you're just saying if you put something in here it's going to validate against this
[2021-03-10T18:49:59.174Z]  <rhiaro>    ... this consistent organisation scheme makes it much easier to establish consistent authorization schemes
[2021-03-10T18:50:04.232Z]  <rhiaro>    ... two issues to contend with
[2021-03-10T18:50:10.498Z]  <rhiaro>    ... 1) some individual things are complex on their own
[2021-03-10T18:50:19.600Z]  <rhiaro>    ... an instance of a task can be made up of multiple resources, shapes, schemas
[2021-03-10T18:50:27.370Z]  <rhiaro>    ... 2) some things that are complex can be part of bigger complex things
[2021-03-10T18:50:35.158Z]  <rhiaro>    ... a task is part of a project as well as issues and releases, we need to deal with that
[2021-03-10T18:50:40.211Z]  <rhiaro>    ... this is where shape trees came in
[2021-03-10T18:51:02.430Z]  <rhiaro>    ... a shape tree allows you to marry the graph into the way that its stored in a collection or nested hierarchies for machien to machine interop
[2021-03-10T18:51:08.627Z]  <rhiaro>    ... it gives you structure and validation criteria or schemas
[2021-03-10T18:51:15.753Z]  <rhiaro>    ... a shape tree helps you with the layout as well as how to validate what the thing is
[2021-03-10T18:51:19.206Z]  <manu>  q+ to propose next steps that would bring us closer toward understanding each groups roadmap - what overlaps, what doesn't, etc.
[2021-03-10T18:51:26.908Z]  <rhiaro>    ... each shape tree because its explaining a structure also gives you a boundary with which to auth that data
[2021-03-10T18:51:45.294Z]  <rhiaro>    ... you can see a task made of multiple resources
[2021-03-10T18:51:54.207Z]  <heathervescent>    q+ is a shape tree like a graph database?
[2021-03-10T18:52:01.163Z]  <rhiaro>    ... virtual hierarchies, so we can talk about something like a project and be able to say issues tasks and resources can be made up of that, even if these things are stored flatly
[2021-03-10T18:52:07.369Z]  <rhiaro>    ... this becomes really powerful when you start to get into consent
[2021-03-10T18:52:37.569Z]  <rhiaro>    ... once you have those schemes, you can share it with other people and apps
[2021-03-10T18:52:48.631Z]  <rhiaro>    ... the interop spec gives you schemes for data and app registration, and patterns you can use for consent
[2021-03-10T18:52:58.196Z]  <rhiaro>    ... so that you can grant access to people or apps based one exactly what they need
[2021-03-10T18:53:08.792Z]  <rhiaro>    ... an app is able to express its access needs to any agent that wants to use it
[2021-03-10T18:53:25.026Z]  <rhiaro>    ... if you dereference the global id you get some metadata, this lines up with DIDs, that says the kind of access this app or service needs
[2021-03-10T18:53:39.431Z]  <rhiaro>    ... this can be presented to the user dynamically, that allows them to specify or select exactly what access they want to grant
[2021-03-10T18:53:44.983Z]  <rhiaro>    ... even getting down to related types
[2021-03-10T18:53:57.147Z]  <rhiaro>    ... uses a virtual hierarchy to model complex asks in an intuitive way
[2021-03-10T18:54:26.629Z]  <rhiaro>    ... at no pointing time does the app get access or knowledge to other data in the pod
[2021-03-10T18:54:44.043Z]  <rhiaro>    ... we have these patterns in use using health data
[2021-03-10T18:54:47.129Z]  <rhiaro>    ... which is complicated and complex
[2021-03-10T18:55:16.784Z]  <rhiaro>    ... we're getting feedback from real patients and the thing that made me happiest was they said they were blown away by how easy it was to share their data with other people and applications and understand exactly what they were sharing and tune that easily
[2021-03-10T18:55:30.619Z]  <rhiaro>    ... intuitive isn't usually the first thing people describe based on their experience
[2021-03-10T18:55:33.906Z]  <rhiaro>    ... we see a lot of potential for these
[2021-03-10T18:56:25.796Z]  <heathervescent>    Yes, we can plan to go 15 over the top of the hour, which will give us some Q&A time.
[2021-03-10T18:57:45.790Z]  <rhiaro>    Topic: Integrating Solid and Credentials stacks
[2021-03-10T18:57:49.790Z]  <rhiaro>    bblfish: I'm going to focus on one aspect
[2021-03-10T18:58:11.448Z]  <rhiaro>    ... what ties us to the ccg is the webid work that started in 2008 under a different name
[2021-03-10T18:58:14.039Z]  <rhiaro>    ... it works quite simply
[2021-03-10T18:58:17.172Z]  <rhiaro>    ... very similar to the DID spec
[2021-03-10T18:58:20.254Z]  <rhiaro>    ... two URLs in one
[2021-03-10T18:58:29.128Z]  <rhiaro>    ... the hash url and the url that refers to a doc
[2021-03-10T18:58:32.082Z]  <rhiaro>    ... the hash url refers to a person
[2021-03-10T18:58:44.478Z]  <rhiaro>    ... you go to the document to ifnd out a description which can contain a public key
[2021-03-10T18:58:53.932Z]  <rhiaro>    ... we can work out what ontologies for keys to use
[2021-03-10T18:59:10.332Z]  <rhiaro>    ... the point is so that tim can link to his personal profile and all his friends and 200 of them can link to their friends
[2021-03-10T18:59:18.336Z]  <rhiaro>    ... and the pods can be machines in your own home
[2021-03-10T18:59:26.680Z]  <rhiaro>    ... around 2008 I presented an address book to read this type of stuff
[2021-03-10T18:59:28.881Z]  <rhiaro>    ... its' a bad UI
[2021-03-10T18:59:36.379Z]  <rhiaro>    ... now we have a lot of people working on the UI
[2021-03-10T18:59:44.182Z]  <rhiaro>    ... the UI at the time could only read because we didn't have a read-write element
[2021-03-10T18:59:53.633Z]  <rhiaro>    ... in order to do privacy you need access control and auth
[2021-03-10T19:00:02.508Z]  <rhiaro>    ... in this blog post from 2008 after asking on ietf we discovered client side certs
[2021-03-10T19:00:08.631Z]  <rhiaro>    ... now we have verifiable credentials 10 years later
[2021-03-10T19:00:28.891Z]  <rhiaro>    ... in one simple connection we can go to a web server and connect, get a client cert request, fetch the public key on the personal user profile
[2021-03-10T19:00:41.213Z]  <rhiaro>    ... we need this efficiency to connect to 200 different connects at the same time
[2021-03-10T19:00:53.935Z]  <rhiaro>    ... one problem was if you connect to 200 websites simultaneously you get 200 cert popus....
[2021-03-10T19:00:58.484Z]  <rhiaro>    ... we also want the apps to read and write
[2021-03-10T19:01:06.505Z]  <rhiaro>    ... in 2015 the linked data platform came out, that's integrated into solid
[2021-03-10T19:01:11.167Z]  <rhiaro>    ... built on atom, and on webdav
[2021-03-10T19:01:16.392Z]  <rhiaro>    ... these things evolving
[2021-03-10T18:58:56.453Z]  <justinwb>  @heathervescent - the shape tree is more like a schema model in a database
[2021-03-10T19:00:45.888Z]  <justinwb>  it gives a template for a data type - like a project - made up of multiple resources / schemas. when applications read and write data for a project, the shape tree ensure that the data is well-formed, so they don't corrupt it when other applications want to use it
[2021-03-10T19:01:30.337Z]  <justinwb>  it also acts as a natural data boundary for authorization / sharing
[2021-03-10T19:01:31.537Z]  <rhiaro>    ... in order to understand access control you need each resource to point to an access control resource which describes who can access
[2021-03-10T19:01:35.038Z]  <rhiaro>    ... one of the first ones is public
[2021-03-10T19:01:38.629Z]  <rhiaro>    ... the server and client can use it
[2021-03-10T19:01:47.138Z]  <rhiaro>    ... the client can find out if it has access and the server if it should give access
[2021-03-10T19:01:59.839Z]  <rhiaro>    ... acl can say the protected access in is in read mode
[2021-03-10T19:02:05.021Z]  <rhiaro>    ... can give access to a group, it's very flexible
[2021-03-10T19:02:17.166Z]  <rhiaro>    ... this is evolving
[2021-03-10T19:02:23.655Z]  <rhiaro>    ... some of the first work on access control in 2010-12
[2021-03-10T19:02:29.636Z]  <rhiaro>    ... the webid tls work fell out
[2021-03-10T19:02:34.615Z]  <rhiaro>    ... chrome removed the keygen part
[2021-03-10T19:02:55.062Z]  <rhiaro>    ... manu showed us the credentials stuff very early on, before this was removed, so I was still hoping browsers would do the write thing
[2021-03-10T19:02:59.137Z]  <rhiaro>    ... it was at the wrong layer of the tls stack
[2021-03-10T19:03:09.638Z]  <rhiaro>    ... the nice thing was if we look at manu's work from 2019, the 12th version of the http signatures spec
[2021-03-10T19:03:16.927Z]  <rhiaro>    ... which is taken over by the ietf http wg
[2021-03-10T19:03:28.206Z]  <rhiaro>    ... it has a way of signing messages and signing authenticating with that at the http layer
[2021-03-10T19:03:40.804Z]  <rhiaro>    ... you can do a.. you could add a www-authenticate signature and use that to authenticate
[2021-03-10T19:03:49.444Z]  <rhiaro>    ... this is at the ietf but they removed this piece which allows authentication
[2021-03-10T19:04:06.796Z]  <rhiaro>    ... that's why I've been working on trying to see how we can get manu's work back in by signign http messages from the rfc
[2021-03-10T19:04:13.955Z]  <rhiaro>    ... that gives us back the same efficient that we had with tls
[2021-03-10T19:04:19.635Z]  <rhiaro>    ... so we can do a request on a resource
[2021-03-10T19:04:40.260Z]  <rhiaro>    ... these clients can do requests on resources around the web, each resource can be protected, you have resources protected, this picture can be seen by my friends this other by my colleagues etc
[2021-03-10T19:04:54.026Z]  <rhiaro>    ... you have this www-authenticate which can come back, and use http sig to sign a header, pass a key in there
[2021-03-10T19:05:03.633Z]  <rhiaro>    ... the client can find out whether it wants to give access
[2021-03-10T19:05:10.441Z]  <rhiaro>    ... you can use authorization http sig, do a request
[2021-03-10T19:05:14.361Z]  <rhiaro>    ... sign some headers
[2021-03-10T19:05:21.287Z]  <rhiaro>    ... have the efficiency of tls but now at the right level
[2021-03-10T19:05:24.905Z]  <rhiaro>    ... you can add credentials too
[2021-03-10T19:05:32.051Z]  <rhiaro>    ... you could have a credentials uri passed into the http sig
[2021-03-10T19:05:35.467Z]  <rhiaro>    ... can be on the server, on the pod
[2021-03-10T19:05:43.447Z]  <rhiaro>    ... also with peer to peer etension to http which is a draft (really cool)
[2021-03-10T19:05:56.459Z]  <rhiaro>    ... it will allow you to place the cert on yoru client and have the server request it on the same connection
[2021-03-10T19:06:10.858Z]  <rhiaro>    ... you can use OWL to describe the acls
[2021-03-10T19:06:14.060Z]  <rhiaro>    ... eg. people over 21
[2021-03-10T19:06:34.270Z]  <rhiaro>    ... you can say that all content that is adult content can be read by the class of over21
[2021-03-10T19:06:38.633Z]  <rhiaro>    ... attribute based access control
[2021-03-10T19:06:46.544Z]  <rhiaro>    ... just starting this work, and would like to work with the credentials group
[2021-03-10T19:07:06.747Z]  <rhiaro>    ... if you think about how these credentials all fit together, I've thought about how you could build what the credentials people call governance
[2021-03-10T19:07:11.360Z]  <rhiaro>    ... a key term in the SSI book
[2021-03-10T19:07:26.447Z]  <elf-pavlik>    q+ to clarify that bblfish presents one of existing explorations for documented use cases https://solid.github.io/authorization-panel/authorization-ucr/
[2021-03-10T19:07:43.775Z]  <rhiaro>    ... in order for that to work at the global level you need a web of nations, point out which can give out credentials for age, for drivers licenses and so on, so servers an dpods don't individually need to know which agency in japan, china, france, can give out drivers licenses
[2021-03-10T19:07:47.346Z]  <rhiaro>    ... a lot of work to be done there
[2021-03-10T19:08:06.082Z]  <heathervescent>    q?
[2021-03-10T19:08:08.636Z]  <rhiaro>    Topic: Q&A
[2021-03-10T19:08:20.904Z]  <heathervescent>    ack agropper
[2021-03-10T19:08:39.710Z]  <Michael_Herman_(Trusted_Digital_Web)>  q+
[2021-03-10T19:09:00.838Z]  <rhiaro>    agropper: in the model where there's a separation between a policy decision point and a policy enforcement point how have pods incorporated that
[2021-03-10T19:09:03.635Z]  <rhiaro>    ... for privacy reasons
[2021-03-10T19:09:12.472Z]  <rhiaro>    ... if I as a patient don't want to share my policies with that hospital?
[2021-03-10T19:09:15.955Z]  <by_caballero>  have pods incorporated the model where there's a separation between policy decision pt and enforcement pt?
[2021-03-10T19:10:09.462Z]  <rhiaro>    timbl: if you don't trust the hospital then you can take a copy of the data on another pod which you run yourself which the hospital is not involved in running
[2021-03-10T19:10:15.042Z]  <rhiaro>    ... and allow people to access it through there
[2021-03-10T19:10:33.324Z]  <rhiaro>    ... to share with friends and family and don't want the hospital to know who your friends and family are
[2021-03-10T19:10:43.902Z]  <rhiaro>    ... you can have things on more than one pod
[2021-03-10T19:11:08.629Z]  <rhiaro>    bblfish: you can also have access control rules, or a secured group
[2021-03-10T19:11:12.520Z]  <heathervescent>    q?
[2021-03-10T19:11:20.436Z]  <rhiaro>    ... all members of this group can access this resource, but only members of the group can se members of the group
[2021-03-10T19:11:30.396Z]  <rhiaro>    ... lots of ways of dealing with situations like this
[2021-03-10T19:11:36.494Z]  <rhiaro>    ... and the credentials group might have new ways..
[2021-03-10T19:11:42.939Z]  <heathervescent>    ack manu
[2021-03-10T19:12:04.683Z]  <rhiaro>    manu: thank you to each of you for joining us today, it's been great seeing where solid is these days
[2021-03-10T19:12:09.174Z]  <rhiaro>    ... there are clearly many places where we overlap
[2021-03-10T19:12:20.598Z]  <rhiaro>    ... the two communities, the core philosophy is very aligned, the technologies we're using are highly aligned
[2021-03-10T19:12:28.651Z]  <rhiaro>    ... I can see pieces that one community is working on that the other might not be
[2021-03-10T19:12:35.542Z]  <rhiaro>    ... or areas where we're working on the same thing and we should collaborate more
[2021-03-10T19:12:48.782Z]  <rhiaro>    ... for next steps, useful for at least the people that have a good idea of the roadmap for each project to get together and decide what pieces overlap
[2021-03-10T19:12:54.719Z]  <rhiaro>    ... what pieces one entity needs that the other may have
[2021-03-10T19:13:02.246Z]  <rhiaro>    ... so we can triage all these technologies and figure out how they fit in
[2021-03-10T19:13:14.065Z]  <rhiaro>    ... these are two very large communities, ideally we can accelerate the work by dividing and conquering
[2021-03-10T19:13:15.325Z]  <heathervescent>    +1 manu
[2021-03-10T19:13:19.638Z]  <rhiaro>    ... that's my ask to the leaders in both groups
[2021-03-10T19:13:26.720Z]  <rhiaro>    ... lets sit down and figure out a way to do that triage and get more organised about who is working on what
[2021-03-10T19:13:27.307Z]  <heathervescent>    q?
[2021-03-10T19:13:31.275Z]  <rhiaro>    timbl: sounds like a plan
[2021-03-10T19:13:39.978Z]  <rhiaro>    heathervescent: I will happily do some followup with folks coordinating that
[2021-03-10T19:13:45.131Z]  <Drummond>  +1 to Manu's suggestion
[2021-03-10T19:13:45.222Z]  <manu>  +1, thank you heathervescent !
[2021-03-10T19:14:02.351Z]  <bblfish_>  Some links to what I showed: https://github.com/solid/authentication-panel/blob/main/proposals/HttpSignature.md
[2021-03-10T19:14:03.327Z]  <heathervescent>    ack elf-pavlik
[2021-03-10T19:14:03.573Z]  <Drummond>  I have to run, but thanks to Tim and team for all their great work
[2021-03-10T19:14:08.924Z]  <heathervescent>    q?
[2021-03-10T19:14:14.448Z]  <rhiaro>    elf-pavlik: across a few different panels, eg. authz panel, we have well documented use cases and requirements
[2021-03-10T19:14:18.474Z]  <bblfish_>  https://bblfish.net/work/AddressBook/
[2021-03-10T19:14:20.763Z]  <rhiaro>    ... one of the interesting points to see the overlap
[2021-03-10T19:14:26.657Z]  <bblfish_>  http://web.archive.org/web/20080426014047/http://blogs.sun.com/bblfish/entry/foaf_ssl_creating_a_global
[2021-03-10T19:14:36.957Z]  <rhiaro>    ... henry was describing one proposals, focusing on http signatures, but at this moment it's quite open and there are different proposals
[2021-03-10T19:14:37.730Z]  <bblfish_>  https://www.w3.org/TR/ldp/#ldpc-HTTP_POST
[2021-03-10T19:14:39.112Z]  <rhiaro>    .. oauth, or gnap
[2021-03-10T19:14:45.513Z]  <bblfish_>  https://www.w3.org/wiki/WebAccessControl
[2021-03-10T19:14:52.205Z]  <rhiaro>    ... we look at uma and how claims gathering work over there
[2021-03-10T19:14:52.649Z]  <bblfish_>  https://www.w3.org/2005/Incubator/webid/spec/tls/
[2021-03-10T19:15:01.226Z]  <bblfish_>  https://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-cavage-http-signatures-12
[2021-03-10T19:15:01.535Z]  <rhiaro>    ... some things are still quite open and we explore different ways of approaching that
[2021-03-10T19:15:07.315Z]  <heathervescent>    q?
[2021-03-10T19:15:11.306Z]  <rhiaro>    ... henry presented one, but it's not closed how we want to approach these
[2021-03-10T19:15:18.635Z]  <rhiaro>    ... still flexible, options how to solve those problems
[2021-03-10T19:15:29.622Z]  <rhiaro>    heathervescent: these meetings today have been a lot of food for thought for both sides
[2021-03-10T19:15:39.193Z]  <rhiaro>    ... there are some clear places where it makes sense for us to start a potential collaboration
[2021-03-10T19:15:42.465Z]  <rhiaro>    ... but that's just the known stuff
[2021-03-10T19:16:05.616Z]  <rhiaro>    ... want to collaborate on the unknown stuff, that's still emerging, to see if the technologies and ideas and concepts can align
[2021-03-10T19:16:19.046Z]  <rhiaro>    michael_herman: my interest is in fully decentralised platforms
[2021-03-10T19:16:24.470Z]  <heathervescent>    ack Michael_Herman_(Trusted_Digital_Web)
[2021-03-10T19:16:26.599Z]  <rhiaro>    ... for the past couple of weeks Ive been working on decentralised twitter
[2021-03-10T19:16:35.901Z]  <rhiaro>    ... solid like the confidential storage spec is a server based secure storage solution
[2021-03-10T19:16:50.744Z]  <rhiaro>    ... can you comment on if I want my pod running on my phone as a secure storage resource, do you see that in the future? or not in scope?
[2021-03-10T19:16:56.997Z]  <rhiaro>    ... on device secure storage?
[2021-03-10T19:17:13.633Z]  <rhiaro>    timbl: yes, we have a lot of early interest in giving people their pods on their phone
[2021-03-10T19:17:16.301Z]  <rhiaro>    ... you have to back it up and so on
[2021-03-10T19:17:24.962Z]  <rhiaro>    ... you can have various places to sync it
[2021-03-10T19:17:47.087Z]  <rhiaro>    ... you might be interested to look at the work .. everything starts with https so you can follow links, but you can also put.. you can use other protocols as well like ipfs for example
[2021-03-10T19:18:11.758Z]  <rhiaro>    ... there's a solid safe, the safe decentralised network, those folks have put in a version of solid which runs on a stack that accesses https or safe: URIs
[2021-03-10T19:18:15.166Z]  <rhiaro>    ... so you can link between them
[2021-03-10T19:18:18.981Z]  <rhiaro>    ... the SAFE world is decentralised
[2021-03-10T19:18:37.441Z]  <rhiaro>    ... decentralised in the sense of being splattered everywhere, whereas solid is decentralised but lumpy
[2021-03-10T19:18:44.111Z]  <rhiaro>    ... lots of ways of connecting together
[2021-03-10T19:18:49.303Z]  <rhiaro>    ... decentralised file system
[2021-03-10T19:18:56.326Z]  <rhiaro>    ... it has to support URLs, you have to be able to link to it
[2021-03-10T19:19:15.689Z]  <rhiaro>    heathervescent: thanks everyone!
[2021-03-10T19:19:21.217Z]  <rhiaro>    ... we've been very interested about this for a while
[2021-03-10T19:19:44.333Z]  <rhiaro>    ... we'll be back next week with a regular ccg meeting
[2021-03-10T19:19:55.372Z]  <rhiaro>    ... I'll follow up on the list and connect with the solid side
[2021-03-10T19:20:04.474Z]  <rhiaro>    ... I invite the solid folks to email the ccg list and let us know when you're meeting and how we can join
[2021-03-10T19:20:14.692Z]  <rhiaro>    ... if you want to join our regular meeting or any of our task forces we have those notifications on our list
[2021-03-10T19:20:25.191Z]  <rhiaro>    ... I'm also personally available if you need any help figuring out who to connect with or who to talk to
[2021-03-10T19:20:38.908Z]  <rhiaro>    ... more thanks! meeting concluded
[2021-03-10T19:22:17.600Z]  <bblfish_>   blog post on the web of nations https://medium.com/cybersoton/from-digital-sovereignty-to-the-web-of-nations-61fbc28d79cd
[2021-03-10T19:24:27.054Z]  <csarven>   kewls, that was great
