[Tue 11:06:12] <manu>	Agenda: https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-webpayments-ig/2016Oct/0037.html
[Tue 11:06:13] <voip-vctf>	14019521774 [SIP/69.65.34.216-00000031] has joined the conference.
[Tue 11:06:13] *	Ryladog_ attending two meeting at the same time
[Tue 11:06:54] <manu>	scribe: les
[Tue 11:07:05] <manu>	voip: 0031 is Kerri
[Tue 11:07:05] <voip-vctf>	Associated Kerri with SIP/69.65.34.216-00000031.
[Tue 11:07:22] <voip-vctf>	12125583175 [SIP/69.65.34.216-00000032] has joined the conference.
[Tue 11:07:40] <les>	manu: We've had multiple face-to-face meetings over the past two weeks - Rebooting web of trust, Internet Identity Workshop, Verifiable Claims Face-to-face
[Tue 11:08:08] <les>	manu: We will review f2f meetings and updates from the VCTF
[Tue 11:08:45] <les>	manu: weekly mtgs to transition to the new chairs, Richard Varn and Matt Stone.
[Tue 11:08:53] <manu>	voip: 0032 is Rebecca
[Tue 11:08:53] <voip-vctf>	Associated Rebecca with SIP/69.65.34.216-00000032.
[Tue 11:09:01] <manu>	Topic: Rebooting Web of Trust
[Tue 11:09:16] <manu>	Outcomes from Rebooting Web of Trust - https://github.com/WebOfTrustInfo/rebooting-the-web-of-trust-fall2016/blob/master/draft-documents/rwot3-digital-verification-outcomes.md
[Tue 11:09:39] <les>	manu: item 1 WoT review. chaired by Christopher Allen. way to get stuff done. shipping is number 1 goal
[Tue 11:09:55] <les>	Manu: DID a big topic
[Tue 11:10:09] *	Matt_Larson (~Matt_Larson@public.cloak) has joined #vctf
[Tue 11:10:31] <manu>	DID specification (older version): https://github.com/WebOfTrustInfo/rebooting-the-web-of-trust-fall2016/blob/master/draft-documents/rwot3-digital-verification-outcomes.md
[Tue 11:10:47] <les>	Drummond: seeds planted at WoT meeting 1. Respect Network obtained a DHS phase 1 grant to study DID on the blockchain. Been advancing the work through the WoT meetings
[Tue 11:11:22] <les>	Drummond: WD03 submitted at beginning - Persistent identifiers similar to URNs that are registerable without centralization
[Tue 11:12:03] <les>	Drummond: contain cryptgraphic idnetifiers (CID). Structured with a DDO (DiD Object)
[Tue 11:12:07] <phila>	present+ PhilA
[Tue 11:12:19] <manu>	voip: 0033 is PhilArcher
[Tue 11:12:20] <voip-vctf>	Associated PhilArcher with SIP/69.65.34.216-00000033.
[Tue 11:12:33] <les>	Drummond: DDO contains a control block with permissions for updating
[Tue 11:12:48] <les>	Drummond: during the session submited DID WD 04
[Tue 11:13:17] <les>	Manu: DID started within the VCTF. Thanks to Drummond for driving it forward
[Tue 11:13:42] <manu>	Outcomes for Verfiable Claims from RWoT III: https://github.com/WebOfTrustInfo/rebooting-the-web-of-trust-fall2016/blob/master/draft-documents/rwot3-digital-verification-outcomes.md
[Tue 11:13:56] <Drummond>	The current DID Working Draft spec, now heading towards WD05, is at https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Z-9jX4PEWtyRFD5fEyyzEnWK_0ir0no1JJLuRu8O9Gs/edit#
[Tue 11:14:00] *	Varn (~Varn@public.cloak) has joined #vctf
[Tue 11:14:02] <manu>	https://github.com/WebOfTrustInfo/rebooting-the-web-of-trust-fall2016/blob/master/draft-documents/rwot3-digital-verification-outcomes.md#authoring-the-verifiable-claims-specification-privacy-and-security-section
[Tue 11:14:25] <les>	Manu: security and privacy considerations section added to the spec
[Tue 11:15:31] <les>	Manu: extended the LD data to include public signatures, pseudononimous identifiers and multi sig natures
[Tue 11:15:34] <manu>	https://w3.org/community/digital-verification/
[Tue 11:16:23] <les>	Manu: Harlan Wood and Noah Thorpe implemented verifiable claims at WoT
[Tue 11:17:40] <les>	Drummond: it was remarkable how verifiable claims have become a number one topic during RWOT
[Tue 11:18:28] <les>	Manu: we still have a bit of work to do to raise the questions over the work to the w3c mgmt
[Tue 11:18:41] <Drummond>	Yes, I agree with Manu that the assumptions of the RWOT attendees that verifiable claims were "just there" was a little dangerous
[Tue 11:18:49] <manu>	Topic: Internet Identity Workshop #23
[Tue 11:19:02] <manu>	We did two sessions there - the first - Intro to Verifiable Claims: https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1pY6TGsCBzmui_KVM5Q71t1LbHgdv10vRPov7SoISjqU/edit
[Tue 11:19:03] <Drummond>	They didn't really understand how much work remains to get them to a standard.
[Tue 11:19:20] <les>	Manu: continuted to discuss verfiable claims on the first day. there were 44 people attending out of 180 at IIW
[Tue 11:19:46] <les>	Manu: day 1 good but healthy skepticism ... great push back with great answers
[Tue 11:19:57] <manu>	Deep Dive on Verifiable Claims: https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1BsGY6YOlkfTQQyxm0jJadxBhJwBCE3QLDoyRENzhS0k/edit
[Tue 11:20:04] <les>	Manu: 1 hour was not enough time ...asked to do a deep dive on day 2
[Tue 11:20:09] <nage>	(these links may move as they are archived) http://iiw.idcommons.net/Intro_to_Verifiable_Claims
[Tue 11:20:29] <les>	Manu: 35-40 people to attend on day 2. lots of Q&A
[Tue 11:20:35] <nage>	http://iiw.idcommons.net/Verifiable_Claims_Deep_Dive
[Tue 11:20:47] <les>	Manu: concerns were discussed over the next 2 days
[Tue 11:21:18] <les>	Manu: Thurs and Fri were the VCTF f2f meetings
[Tue 11:21:28] <manu>	Pictures from Verifiable Claims at IIW: http://w3c.github.io/vctf/meetings/2016-10-27/
[Tue 11:21:55] <les>	Manu: The link above shows the people that attended ... good number
[Tue 11:22:44] <les>	Manu: IIW team invited VCTF to come back ... they felt it was great for the communities to come together ... good synergies
[Tue 11:24:00] <les>	Drummond: DID and IIW - took WD04 into a another intensive session. Focus on how to provide internet scale identity. went deep into DDOs
[Tue 11:24:19] *	manu hey phila - once we get through the next agenda item, i'd like you to introduce yourself to the group... would that be okay?
[Tue 11:24:34] *	phila sure manu 
[Tue 11:24:41] <les>	Drummond: DID's work independently sponsored by DHS ... not yet part of a standards group. Goal to get the spec done this month
[Tue 11:25:11] <les>	Drummond: 1 for sovrin, 1 for bitcoin and a couple of etherium methods to be specied
[Tue 11:31:28] <stone>	stone: great discussions - have to be careful as we debate the big topics of verifiable claims vis-a-vis community group and data model spec charted by W3C
[Tue 11:25:21] <manu>	Topic: Verifiable Claims Face-to-Face
[Tue 11:25:41] <manu>	Minutes from Day One: https://w3c.github.io/vctf/meetings/2016-10-27/
[Tue 11:25:52] <les>	Manu: unofficial mtg of the VCTF met thursday and friday
[Tue 11:25:52] <manu>	Minutes from Day two: https://w3c.github.io/vctf/meetings/2016-10-28/
[Tue 11:26:18] <les>	Manu: very productive .. lots of level setting. thanks to chairs for keeping us on track
[Tue 11:26:44] <les>	Manu: overview of tech, long term concerns such as signature formats. reviewed data models.
[Tue 11:27:33] *	manu les, that's Richard speaking
[Tue 11:27:38] <les>	Richard: felt that new people added great value. appreciated the overlap with the IIW gang
[Tue 11:28:43] <les>	Matt: echo richard's statements. lot of work to do where the boundaries are
[Tue 11:29:22] <les>	Matt: challanging to stay focused on the two domains. First is data model/syntax, second is business rules layered on top of that.
[Tue 11:29:28] <Drummond>	I have to drop off the call now, but I agree that the in-person meeting was highly productive and informative (especially for the new folks)
[Tue 11:29:42] *	erkorb_rm (~eric.korb@public.cloak) has joined #vctf
[Tue 11:29:44] *	manu thanks Drummond! :)
[Tue 11:29:58] *	Drummond has quit ("Page closed")
[Tue 11:30:28] <les>	Manu: great sessions... should do it again
[Tue 11:31:05] <voip-vctf>	19082515136 [SIP/69.65.34.216-00000038] has joined the conference.
[Tue 11:31:09] <manu>	Topic: Intro to Phil Archer from W3C
[Tue 11:31:09] <les>	Manu: phil archer from w3c has joined the call today
[Tue 11:31:24] <les>	Archer: Role to work on data related standards, I used to be the Data Activity Lead, now I'm the Data Strategist.
[Tue 11:31:29] <manu>	voip: 0038 is EricKorb
[Tue 11:31:29] <voip-vctf>	Associated EricKorb with SIP/69.65.34.216-00000038.
[Tue 11:31:54] *	CarlaCasilli (~CarlaCasilli@public.cloak) has joined #vctf
[Tue 11:31:57] <les>	Archer: ask to marshal us through the process
[Tue 11:32:20] <voip-vctf>	Carla Casilli [SIP/sip2sip.info-00000039] has joined the conference.
[Tue 11:32:33] <les>	Archer: Thanks to the team for doing much of the leg work. will help on final charter items
[Tue 11:33:04] <voip-vctf>	David I. Lehn [SIP/6003-0000003a] has joined the conference.
[Tue 11:33:08] <les>	Archer: Need to get with the chairs and better understand the goals.
[Tue 11:33:48] <gkellogg>	+1 to Phil, he’s been great to work with.
[Tue 11:33:54] <les>	Manu: We are happy to have Phil as our advisor
[Tue 11:33:58] <pindar>	+1
[Tue 11:34:34] <Ryladog>	+1
[Tue 11:35:00] <les>	Archer: I have a question for the group. If you have an implemenation and someone comes up with a new point that changes the spec are you willing to change your implementation to match with the new updates?
[Tue 11:35:33] <Varn>	q+
[Tue 11:35:33] <voip-vctf>	Varn has been added to the queue: Varn
[Tue 11:35:39] <erkorb_rm>	Accreditrust will update to comply with specs adopted by W3C
[Tue 11:35:51] <KerriLemoie>	q+
[Tue 11:35:51] <voip-vctf>	KerriLemoie has been added to the queue: Varn, KerriLemoie
[Tue 11:36:07] <manu>	q+ DavidC
[Tue 11:36:07] <voip-vctf>	manu has been added to the queue: Varn, KerriLemoie, DavidC
[Tue 11:36:12] <nage>	q+
[Tue 11:36:12] <voip-vctf>	nage has been added to the queue: Varn, KerriLemoie, DavidC, nage
[Tue 11:36:12] <les>	Manu: I can only speak for Digital Bazaar's implementation of Verifiable Claims. I know Accreditrust also has one, he'll have to speak for Accreditrust. you have to be careful about how you ask that question, there are many people here that have implemented open badges and are integrating them into Verifaible Claims. So, those people will have to speak up as well. For those that have implemented, please speak up now.
[Tue 11:36:12] <les>	Richard: We're in the OpenBadge implementation space, the reason we haven't done more is because it doesn't meet our needs for Verifiable Claims, we've implemented, but are anticipating changes and we, ETS, are willing and needing to implement changes in the spec.
[Tue 11:36:14] <CarlaCasilli>	The open badges spec is shifting hands to IMS Global 1/1/2017, so that question is a larger question than it was in the past.
[Tue 11:36:18] <stone>	q+
[Tue 11:36:18] <voip-vctf>	stone has been added to the queue: Varn, KerriLemoie, DavidC, nage, stone
[Tue 11:36:20] <manu>	ack Varn
[Tue 11:36:20] <voip-vctf>	Varn has the floor.
[Tue 11:36:27] <stone>	q?
[Tue 11:36:27] <voip-vctf>	The current speaker queue is: KerriLemoie, DavidC, nage, stone
[Tue 11:36:39] <les>	Kerri: I can't speak for OpenBadges, but I am in that group and we are working on Open Badges v2 and we are in a place to adopt changes in Verifiable Claims and update our implementations.
[Tue 11:36:40] <manu>	ack KerriLemoie 
[Tue 11:36:40] <voip-vctf>	KerriLemoie has the floor.
[Tue 11:36:43] <manu>	ack DavidC
[Tue 11:36:43] <voip-vctf>	DavidC has the floor.
[Tue 11:37:11] <les>	DavidC: We have an implementation that we've done, it's not standardized, done some of our own stuff based on FIDO protocol, we want to update/change, dependent on funding at University.
[Tue 11:37:12] <manu>	ack nage
[Tue 11:37:12] <voip-vctf>	nage has the floor.
[Tue 11:37:31] <les>	Nathan: At Evernym (company), we've been working on a reference implementation of Verifiable Claims inside of the Sovrin Ledger (product). We're already in discussion on how we can make our implementation of Verifiable Claims and Zero Knowledge Proofs match what's being done in the Working Group.
[Tue 11:37:32] <manu>	ack stone 
[Tue 11:37:32] <voip-vctf>	stone has the floor.
[Tue 11:37:49] <voip-vctf>	16122174726 [SIP/69.65.34.216-0000003b] has joined the conference.
[Tue 11:37:55] <ShaneM>	present+ ShaneM
[Tue 11:38:01] <manu>	voip: 3b is ShaneM
[Tue 11:38:01] <voip-vctf>	Associated ShaneM with SIP/69.65.34.216-0000003b.
[Tue 11:38:05] <e_korb_rm>	Q+
[Tue 11:38:15] <les>	Stone: Hi, Matt Stone from Pearson. We have a product called Acclaim that is an implementation of Open Badges, driving needs that we're talking about in Verifiable Claims. Our challenge is to bring these things together so they're less discretely different.
[Tue 11:38:15] <les>	Manu: So Phil, I hope that answers your question, we have organizations that have implemented and they're willing to update their implementations based on potential Verifiable Claims WG output.
[Tue 11:40:26] <les>	Eric: Eric Korb from Accreditrust, we have implementatoins of Verifiable Claims data format, also integrated Open Badges, we can support both formats. We believe Verifiable Claims format is the best one. We are very open to adopting what happens with the spec, we have seen the "proof in the pudding". We are also very involved in Open Badges and IMS Global, so we're happy to join forces and bring these groups together in a common standard.
[Tue 11:38:31] <e_korb_rm>	q+
[Tue 11:38:31] <voip-vctf>	e_korb_rm has been added to the queue: e_korb_rm
[Tue 11:38:51] <les>	Archer: I imagine that there will be some changes but they should be a small delta. This has happened for PoE and ODRL. No one wants to rewrite everything, some delta may come up, some willingness to change is good.
[Tue 11:39:06] *	donc (~donc@public.cloak) has joined #vctf
[Tue 11:39:37] <stone>	q+
[Tue 11:39:37] <voip-vctf>	stone has been added to the queue: e_korb_rm, stone
[Tue 11:39:41] <manu>	ack erkorb_rm 
[Tue 11:39:41] <voip-vctf>	erkorb_rm isn't on the speaker queue.
[Tue 11:39:47] <manu>	ack e_korb_rm 
[Tue 11:39:47] <voip-vctf>	e_korb_rm has the floor.
[Tue 11:39:49] <les>	Archer: glad to see the willingness for changes
[Tue 11:40:58] <les>	Eric: happy to join forces in bringing different groups together such as the open badge alliance
[Tue 11:41:01] <KerriLemoie>	q+
[Tue 11:41:01] <voip-vctf>	KerriLemoie has been added to the queue: stone, KerriLemoie
[Tue 11:41:26] <KerriLemoie>	q-
[Tue 11:41:27] <voip-vctf>	KerriLemoie has been removed from the queue: stone
[Tue 11:41:27] <les>	Manu: open badges alliance representation is here and engaged
[Tue 11:41:29] <korb>	IMS announced last week they will be taking over the stewardship of the OBI
[Tue 11:41:37] <KerriLemoie>	q+
[Tue 11:41:37] <voip-vctf>	KerriLemoie has been added to the queue: stone, KerriLemoie
[Tue 11:41:41] <stone>	+IMSGlobal taking over Open Badges on Jan1
[Tue 11:41:55] <manu>	ack stone 
[Tue 11:41:55] <voip-vctf>	stone has the floor.
[Tue 11:42:35] <les>	Stone: Willingness to conform by bigger players is important as interoperability is a must
[Tue 11:42:36] <Varn>	also, we are members of IMS global as are several others here and we so will be attached to the OBI work through the new effort at IMS overseeing it
[Tue 11:42:42] <manu>	ack KerriLemoie 
[Tue 11:42:42] <voip-vctf>	KerriLemoie has the floor.
[Tue 11:42:47] <les>	Kerri: intro to openbadges
[Tue 11:43:13] <les>	Kerri: mozilla started ... IMS Global taking over ownership of the spec - http://www.imsglobal.org/article/ims-global-mozilla-foundation-and-lrng-announce-next-steps-accelerate-evolution-open-badges
[Tue 11:43:37] <les>	Manu: look at Open Badges as a vocabulary .. we've been working with the Open Badges Community - director of OBI comes to these calls, it is linked data, fits in well with Verifiable Claims
[Tue 11:43:38] <Varn>	IMS Global is taking over ownership of the spec
[Tue 11:43:41] <KerriLemoie>	https://openbadgespec.org/
[Tue 11:43:58] <manu>	Topic: Responses to VC Concerns
[Tue 11:44:02] <les>	Manu: last agenda item: responses to the VC work
[Tue 11:44:03] <manu>	https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-webpayments-comments/2016Oct/0031.html
[Tue 11:44:26] <les>	Manu: Input is mostly from Tantek from Mozilla, Microsoft, Google, and Akamai
[Tue 11:44:47] <gkellogg>	Tantek’s sig indicates he’s Web Standards Lead at Mozilla, so this would seem to be an official response to me.
[Tue 11:44:49] <les>	Manu: Tantek is asking if this is all just cheerleeding or is it real - are there implementations
[Tue 11:45:02] <les>	Manu: yes it is real ... our discussions above are proof of implementations
[Tue 11:45:23] *	dlongley Blockstream also implementing, not present on call today.
[Tue 11:45:35] <les>	Manu: we have lots of real participants who are comitted to the effort and interoperability and implementations
[Tue 11:45:48] <les>	Manu: How shall we respond to these questions?
[Tue 11:46:00] <les>	Manu: are there people implementing
[Tue 11:46:07] <les>	Manu: do we need a working group
[Tue 11:46:26] <les>	Manu: consensus at the f2f. yes there are people implementing
[Tue 11:46:52] <les>	Manu: we need a working group due to the number of companies that want to come together to interopeable implementations
[Tue 11:47:03] <Ryladog_>	q+
[Tue 11:47:03] <voip-vctf>	Ryladog_ has been added to the queue: Ryladog_
[Tue 11:47:15] <les>	Manu: do we take these minutes or do we get members to send emails with their commitments?
[Tue 11:47:25] <manu>	ack Ryladog_ 
[Tue 11:47:26] <voip-vctf>	Ryladog_ has the floor.
[Tue 11:48:07] <les>	Katie: which use cases are important to you should be communicated. concern is that the scope will be made too tight such to be useless
[Tue 11:48:12] <manu>	q+ to suggest a way forward.
[Tue 11:48:12] <voip-vctf>	manu has been added to the queue: manu
[Tue 11:48:55] *	dlongley note ... i also think we don't want to take on even more work repeating this information again.
[Tue 11:48:55] <ShaneM>	Don't forget to include the link to the list of implementor committments we got earlier
[Tue 11:49:11] *	ShaneM dlongley ++
[Tue 11:49:14] <les>	Manu: can send an email back refering to minutes and the audio and CC those that spoke up as a response. This can start a dialog with those that have expressed its importance
[Tue 11:49:58] <Varn>	They are  not becomes no one is....
[Tue 11:50:04] *	phila Don't forget, every W3C member has one vote, no one has a veto
[Tue 11:50:07] <les>	Dave: We have done this exercise a number of times. Unfortunately we still get push back that we are not real ... how do we avoid spinning our wheels
[Tue 11:50:17] *	phila OK, well, the Director does ;-)
[Tue 11:51:10] <les>	Manu: send an email, site minutes, audio log, include implementor commitments and include survey CC'ing everyone ... does this sound like a plan?
[Tue 11:51:22] <e_korb_rm>	+1
[Tue 11:51:34] <pindarhk>	Sounds like a plan
[Tue 11:51:35] <dlongley>	and the questions aren't changing ... they aren't saying why the answer is insufficient.
[Tue 11:51:52] <Ryladog_>	+1 to Manu
[Tue 11:52:12] <dlongley>	+1 to Matt
[Tue 11:52:18] <manu>	+1 to Matt
[Tue 11:52:20] <les>	stone: Phil, how can we put the final nail in the coffin? It feels like we have done this repeatedly.
[Tue 11:53:01] <les>	Archer: this is new to me. Hopes this represents that  this is a change in direction
[Tue 11:53:17] <les>	Archer: expects this to go through and there to be a working group starting in Jan
[Tue 11:54:04] <les>	Manu: we will put that response together
[Tue 11:54:19] <les>	Manu: calls should shift to technical issues
[Tue 11:54:29] <Ryladog>	There is frustration, and hopefully we can get to the work
[Tue 11:54:36] <les>	Manu: will continue to be responsive to questions but we should be getting more technical
[Tue 11:54:43] <ShaneM>	I am pumped to get into the spec work again!!!
[Tue 11:55:12] <pindarhk>	Thanks much ... great call everyone!
[Tue 11:55:18] <KerriLemoie>	Excellent work all. Thank you!
[Tue 11:55:22] <les>	Manu: will not be able to attend next week ... talking about Verifiable Claims in Chicago to Insurance Industry
[Tue 11:55:22] <les>	Present+ sutton, casilli, longley, trainer, lake, lehn, lemoie, pindar, Ryladog, simmons, stone, chasen, archer, korb, shanem, varn, kellogg, burke, chadwick, larson
