[2021-02-17T17:59:55.202Z]	<dmitriz>	present+
[2021-02-17T18:00:08.131Z]	<dmitriz>	present+
[2021-02-17T18:02:43.217Z]	<heathervescent>	present+
[2021-02-17T18:03:16.576Z]	<Robbie.Jones@ForgeRock.com>	robbie jones, present+
[2021-02-17T18:04:15.191Z]	<Michael>	present+
[2021-02-17T18:04:22.183Z]	<jeffdstephens>	present+
[2021-02-17T18:04:36.253Z]	<wayne>	present+
[2021-02-17T18:04:39.953Z]	<jonathan>	present+ jonathan_holt
[2021-02-17T18:04:46.022Z]	<cel>	present+
[2021-02-17T18:05:50.778Z]	<jonathan>	regrets
[2021-02-17T18:07:12.598Z]	<cel>	scribe: cel
[2021-02-17T18:07:18.918Z]	<cel>	wayne: moving to intros and reintros
[2021-02-17T18:07:32.490Z]	<cel>	... feel free to introduce self if first time. would love to hear from you and your interested in the CG
[2021-02-17T18:07:38.342Z]	<tayken>	present+
[2021-02-17T18:07:39.513Z]	<chriswinc>	present+
[2021-02-17T18:07:41.298Z]	<cel>	... are there any folks to introduce themselves?
[2021-02-17T18:07:43.231Z]	<cel>	... last call
[2021-02-17T18:07:43.539Z]	<agropper>	present+
[2021-02-17T18:07:43.892Z]	<Michael_Boyd>	queue+
[2021-02-17T18:07:51.288Z]	<heathervescent>	q?
[2021-02-17T18:07:55.087Z]	<cel>	... moving to reintros
[2021-02-17T18:08:01.197Z]	<wayne>	Agenda: https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-credentials/2021Feb/0087.html
[2021-02-17T18:08:02.897Z]	<wayne>	q?
[2021-02-17T18:08:30.247Z]	<cel>	michael: first time in a while. wanted to say hello
[2021-02-17T18:08:32.095Z]	<TallTed>	present+
[2021-02-17T18:08:42.372Z]	<heathervescent>	*I can't hear him at all*
[2021-02-17T18:08:49.887Z]	<cel>	wayne: reintros?
[2021-02-17T18:09:03.157Z]	<Michael_Boyd>	sorry all, having a problem with the mic. Happy to be here!
[2021-02-17T18:09:18.753Z]	<cel>	wayne: moving on to announcements and reminders
[2021-02-17T18:09:31.069Z]	<heathervescent>	That's correct
[2021-02-17T18:09:36.403Z]	<cel>	... thoughtful bionetrics workshop march 8th , 11th, 12th
[2021-02-17T18:09:44.800Z]	<cel>	... DID WG trying to move towards CR, requesting help with test suite
[2021-02-17T18:09:58.138Z]	<cel>	... if you company is using DIDs and interested in testability, a good way to contribute
[2021-02-17T18:10:02.155Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/did-test-suite
[2021-02-17T18:10:03.002Z]	<identitywoman>	present+
[2021-02-17T18:10:07.120Z]	<cel>	... instructions in repo and DID WG notes
[2021-02-17T18:10:15.298Z]	<cel>	... other announcements?
[2021-02-17T18:10:16.635Z]	<heathervescent>	q+
[2021-02-17T18:10:21.009Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	ack heather
[2021-02-17T18:10:28.116Z]	<cel>	heathervescent: election nomination period is open for another week
[2021-02-17T18:10:39.687Z]	<cel>	wayne: heather sent a very detailed email on how to nominate and what the process is
[2021-02-17T18:10:55.325Z]	<cel>	... if would like to help out as chair, we appreciate your self-nomination or nominate someone else who you think would make a great chair. 3 year term
[2021-02-17T18:11:01.909Z]	<cel>	... any other announcements or reminders?
[2021-02-17T18:11:06.538Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/community/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3A%22action%3A+review+next%22
[2021-02-17T18:11:11.629Z]	<heathervescent>	Hi GeunHyung_Kim, welcome! Thanks for making this time!~
[2021-02-17T18:11:13.142Z]	<cel>	... moving on. we're going to discuss some work items. pasted ^
[2021-02-17T18:11:17.906Z]	<GeunHyung_Kim>	Present+
[2021-02-17T18:11:20.976Z]	<cel>	... one more announcement
[2021-02-17T18:11:43.908Z]	<cel>	... Kick-off date for infrastructure task force. believe on wednessday feb 24, 11am eastern / 8am pacific?
[2021-02-17T18:11:51.913Z]	<cel>	... will be sending out email calendar invite
[2021-02-17T18:11:54.349Z]	<Brent>	present+ brent_zundel
[2021-02-17T18:12:03.321Z]	<GeunHyung_Kim>	Thanks, It's too early morning.
[2021-02-17T18:12:04.417Z]	<cel>	... back to work items. vaccination cert vocab proposal to review. tobias initiated
[2021-02-17T18:12:13.181Z]	<cel>	... coming in late from other call; will ask him when he gets here
[2021-02-17T18:12:23.388Z]	<cel>	... next item: hold VC maintenance meeting to discuss PRs for inclusion
[2021-02-17T18:12:51.570Z]	<cel>	... effectively, the VC maintenance WG works on finding maintenance items - editorial or substantive changes considered part of maintenance as decided by chairs. more details to follow
[2021-02-17T18:13:15.713Z]	<cel>	... chairs: brent zundell (chair, DID WG) and myself
[2021-02-17T18:13:26.968Z]	<cel>	to faciliate transition of many work items from CCG to maintenance of the spec itself
[2021-02-17T18:13:45.562Z]	<cel>	... goal is to keep things without breaking implementations
[2021-02-17T18:14:00.763Z]	<cel>	... not to cause chaos - work better suited for next version of VC spec
[2021-02-17T18:14:14.101Z]	<cel>	Brent: thanks for the recap
[2021-02-17T18:14:48.774Z]	<cel>	Brent: all of the work to discuss issues, raise PRs, go back and forth on PRs, and to determine which PRs the editors want to merge, all this work happens in CCG
[2021-02-17T18:15:16.064Z]	<cel>	in the WG side, when editors and CCG folks say it is ready to go, then the maintenance WG meets, discusses the changes, says yes or not yet
[2021-02-17T18:15:39.675Z]	<cel>	Brent: chairs intend to be active in conversations. once things move to WG level, should not be surprises
[2021-02-17T18:16:01.759Z]	<cel>	.. did a pass of open issues, made quick determination, labeled some maintenance (chairs feel issue could be worked on as part of maintenance charter)
[2021-02-17T18:16:09.301Z]	<cel>	... also labeled as substantive or editorial.
[2021-02-17T18:16:18.243Z]	<cel>	... editorial goes in quickly, substantive requires more conversation
[2021-02-17T18:16:24.015Z]	<cel>	... labeled some deferred. may need a new label
[2021-02-17T18:16:46.828Z]	<cel>	... defer doesn't mean not ever, means we have concerns and not immediately clear if maintenance. work should continue on these
[2021-02-17T18:16:59.096Z]	<cel>	wayne: any questions to brent on the VC maint process?
[2021-02-17T18:17:23.985Z]	<cel>	... should be able to have a doc to describe the proces shortly
[2021-02-17T18:17:41.839Z]	<cel>	... next issue, going to try to close now. we have made charter amendments to address concerns of the last election - the first one this CG held, i believe
[2021-02-17T18:17:47.659Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/community/issues/136
[2021-02-17T18:18:18.129Z]	<cel>	... lot of learnings from it - how to do voting, what is voter eligilbility, etc. if curious, review comments and mailing list. charter amendment passed. minor concerns addressed. closing issues. can reopen if you have something to add.
[2021-02-17T18:18:22.931Z]	<JoeAndrieu>	present+
[2021-02-17T18:18:38.804Z]	<mprorock>	present+
[2021-02-17T18:18:39.236Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	q+ to provide background on w3id.org
[2021-02-17T18:18:52.178Z]	<cel>	... we have finished going through the work items. going to move through a community panel discussion going through separate items. beginning at w3.org. different group but related
[2021-02-17T18:18:53.401Z]	<Tobias_Looker>	present+
[2021-02-17T18:18:55.434Z]	<Ganesh_Annan>	present+
[2021-02-17T18:19:29.365Z]	<wayne>	q?
[2021-02-17T18:19:33.385Z]	<cel>	... also talking about vaccination work item, part of larger family of vocabularity work items, why they help and exist. and discussion on linked data security, why exists, how different from JWT. your questions to be answered in these panels.
[2021-02-17T18:19:44.498Z]	<cel>	manu: thanks. sharing screen
[2021-02-17T18:20:00.469Z]	<cel>	... w3id.org was created many years ago
[2021-02-17T18:20:15.430Z]	<cel>	... in general, when people talk about it, what they are talking about is a redirection service
[2021-02-17T18:20:28.443Z]	<cel>	... basically a link on the web that when you go to it will send you somewhere else.
[2021-02-17T18:20:41.100Z]	<cel>	... why? websites and domains come and go. sometimes you need a permanent identifier on the web.
[2021-02-17T18:20:56.814Z]	<cel>	... need to make sure that the link you are using will always take you to the right place, over 10, 20, 30, 40 years
[2021-02-17T18:21:07.685Z]	<cel>	... a place to give people a place to register long-lived identifiers
[2021-02-17T18:21:15.503Z]	<cel>	... use for many of the vocabularity things we are talking about
[2021-02-17T18:21:45.956Z]	<cel>	... when we talk about linked data security vocab, or traceability vocab, or citizenship vocab, want a link people can remember and use for many years. may change over time.
[2021-02-17T18:22:16.804Z]	<cel>	... link may start out at ccg but then moves w3c wg, then may move to permanent location at Library of Congress, or W3C (which is backed up by the LoC)
[2021-02-17T18:22:25.799Z]	<cel>	... w3id.org landing page
[2021-02-17T18:22:33.937Z]	<cel>	... talks about purpose of the site, how to create a new identifier
[2021-02-17T18:22:42.279Z]	<cel>	... anyone can create a new identifier
[2021-02-17T18:22:50.711Z]	<cel>	... by GitHub PR, or mailing list
[2021-02-17T18:23:13.641Z]	<cel>	... everything in a GitHub repository. have been 5000 changes to endpoints registered. 400 people contributed
[2021-02-17T18:23:19.104Z]	<cel>	... over many years.
[2021-02-17T18:23:31.882Z]	<cel>	... https://github.com/perma-id/w3id.org/
[2021-02-17T18:23:49.120Z]	<cel>	... every week there are many pull requests, people tirelessly pushing it forward. many projects.
[2021-02-17T18:24:16.189Z]	<cel>	... security vocab CCG location on w3id.org
[2021-02-17T18:24:31.837Z]	<wayne>	q?
[2021-02-17T18:24:34.430Z]	<cel>	... can see last change, who maintains this particular redirect
[2021-02-17T18:24:37.260Z]	<wayne>	ack Manu
[2021-02-17T18:24:46.197Z]	<cel>	... https://github.com/perma-id/w3id.org/tree/master/security
[2021-02-17T18:24:47.332Z]	<wayne>	q+
[2021-02-17T18:24:51.793Z]	<wayne>	ack wayne
[2021-02-17T18:24:51.930Z]	<cel>	... questions on w3id.org or what it does?
[2021-02-17T18:25:11.130Z]	<cel>	wayne: question. about infrastructure and governance, who decides yes or know? are there ever conflicts?
[2021-02-17T18:25:36.079Z]	<cel>	manu: governance is super-loose. people that actually manage PRs: a handful of 4-5 people. seems crazy but that is where we are right now.
[2021-02-17T18:25:57.743Z]	<cel>	... typically if you do a PR, Daniel will look at it, Dave Lain?, Dave Longley might
[2021-02-17T18:26:09.021Z]	<cel>	... generally things don't get rejected unless you are trying to break something
[2021-02-17T18:26:18.902Z]	<cel>	... we don't get many jerks
[2021-02-17T18:26:23.126Z]	<Orie>	purly additive changes never get rejected... changes to an existing redirect tend to require approval from maintainers.
[2021-02-17T18:26:44.091Z]	<cel>	... only modifications suggested may be for performance or to fix accidents in other areas, suggesting move to have better control
[2021-02-17T18:27:04.550Z]	<cel>	... that is the day-to-day decision making. there isn't a whole lot of process but it is documented
[2021-02-17T18:27:17.654Z]	<wayne>	q+
[2021-02-17T18:27:18.745Z]	<cel>	... doesn't seem to need to change. about who hosts it: that is different
[2021-02-17T18:27:27.837Z]	<wayne>	ack wayne
[2021-02-17T18:27:32.609Z]	<cel>	wayne: who hosts it, and what happens when it goes wrong?
[2021-02-17T18:27:43.525Z]	<cel>	manu: digital bazaar paying for last 10 years. on a rackspace server.
[2021-02-17T18:27:55.133Z]	<cel>	... a set of companies prepared to take over if something happens
[2021-02-17T18:28:14.428Z]	<cel>	... issue is that this list is 7 years old, having refreshed, only companies still around are Digital Bazaar, OpenLink Software, and Applied Testing and Tech
[2021-02-17T18:28:19.950Z]	<cel>	... everyone else moved on or failed, etc
[2021-02-17T18:28:38.936Z]	<Orie>	If only github supported htaccess files....
[2021-02-17T18:28:39.123Z]	<cel>	... criticality of things to be done: need more orgs to share management/redunancy if something happens
[2021-02-17T18:29:03.239Z]	<cel>	... if site down, its ok, there is repo
[2021-02-17T18:29:03.463Z]	<Orie>	q+ to note about why the server does not matter
[2021-02-17T18:29:14.526Z]	<cel>	... the other companies have access to the domain name as well
[2021-02-17T18:29:18.773Z]	<cel>	... or at least, they did
[2021-02-17T18:29:33.075Z]	<cel>	... may want to address as a WG or community
[2021-02-17T18:29:37.095Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	ack orie
[2021-02-17T18:29:38.063Z]	<cel>	wayne: other questions
[2021-02-17T18:30:05.097Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	q+ to agree with Orie, and then talk about the sad things.
[2021-02-17T18:30:11.064Z]	<cel>	Orie: if doing right, never make network request. should not rely on it
[2021-02-17T18:30:42.376Z]	<cel>	Orie: may follow redirect that would end on it, but actual file is hosted on GitHub, hosted by Microsoft
[2021-02-17T18:31:00.434Z]	<cel>	... if GitHub goes down, people will get angry and get it back up again
[2021-02-17T18:31:21.987Z]	<cel>	... you should not be relying on presence of this server for anything. redirects it points to are hosted on other servers
[2021-02-17T18:31:40.235Z]	<cel>	... what is going away: you should ask about the referents
[2021-02-17T18:31:42.306Z]	<wayne>	q?
[2021-02-17T18:31:46.372Z]	<wayne>	ack manu
[2021-02-17T18:31:52.454Z]	<cel>	manu: +1 to what Orie said
[2021-02-17T18:32:13.295Z]	<Orie>	people also fail to wash their hands after using the bathroom.
[2021-02-17T18:32:20.038Z]	<cel>	... sad part: while true, you should never rely on w3id.org, people do all the time, software not correct. typically research projects or not in production
[2021-02-17T18:32:35.162Z]	<cel>	... we originally went to w3c to ask to put it there, they said no
[2021-02-17T18:32:54.156Z]	<cel>	... because they used to host XML schema/NS files on w3c, and it brought w3c servers down to knees on fairly frequent basis
[2021-02-17T18:33:07.916Z]	<cel>	... because some developer would release a tool that would become popular that would always pull from w3c servers
[2021-02-17T18:33:20.069Z]	<cel>	... deployment → DDoS W3C because not caching
[2021-02-17T18:33:28.562Z]	<Orie>	q+ to agan say how to handle bad developers
[2021-02-17T18:33:42.762Z]	<cel>	... that still continues to this day, unfortunately, devs don't always read the documentation, deploy things that were toys but become production
[2021-02-17T18:33:56.576Z]	<wayne>	ack Orie
[2021-02-17T18:34:04.149Z]	<cel>	... good news: we don't tend to feel that since it is only redirects, provider can deal with it and does appropriate caching
[2021-02-17T18:34:16.552Z]	<cel>	Orie: every time this comes up, manu says the same thing, and I say the same thing afterwards.
[2021-02-17T18:34:23.077Z]	<cel>	... that bad behavior is not to be tolerated by the community
[2021-02-17T18:34:39.883Z]	<cel>	... developer should be held accountable
[2021-02-17T18:34:55.007Z]	<cel>	... don't do it! if you do, you are a bad dev contributing to DDOS
[2021-02-17T18:35:17.615Z]	<cel>	wayne: vaccination work item by tobias
[2021-02-17T18:35:22.131Z]	<Tobias_Looker>	q+
[2021-02-17T18:35:28.378Z]	<wayne>	ack Tobias
[2021-02-17T18:35:37.927Z]	<Tobias_Looker>	w3id.org/vaccination
[2021-02-17T18:35:45.083Z]	<cel>	Tobias_Looker: requested to CCG for new work item ^
[2021-02-17T18:35:50.213Z]	<wayne>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/community/issues/182
[2021-02-17T18:36:11.529Z]	<cel>	... many are aware of initiatives for this use case
[2021-02-17T18:36:27.080Z]	<cel>	... formally defining a vocabulary with accompanying JSON-LD context
[2021-02-17T18:36:37.281Z]	<cel>	... familiar to those working with other vocabularities
[2021-02-17T18:36:47.552Z]	<cel>	... extending for the use case of vaccination certificates
[2021-02-17T18:36:48.346Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	Looking at the vocabulary at https://w3id.org/vaccination/ <--- CBOR-LD encoding... NOICE!
[2021-02-17T18:36:55.194Z]	<cel>	... welcoming contributions. early days.
[2021-02-17T18:37:02.518Z]	<cel>	... mailing list thread suggested many people with ideas
[2021-02-17T18:37:04.914Z]	<wayne>	q?
[2021-02-17T18:37:09.001Z]	<jonathan>	q+
[2021-02-17T18:37:09.951Z]	<cel>	wayne: thanks. any questions or comments? add to q
[2021-02-17T18:37:18.162Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	ack jonathan
[2021-02-17T18:37:51.890Z]	<cel>	jonathan: bunch of work going on in different standards bodies. i've been involved in vaccination vocabularies since before covid
[2021-02-17T18:38:07.963Z]	<cel>	... already done in robust HL7-FHIR(?)
[2021-02-17T18:38:15.083Z]	<cel>	... definitions
[2021-02-17T18:38:30.597Z]	<cel>	... building on work from Josh (?) from Microsoft
[2021-02-17T18:38:34.918Z]	<manu>	q+
[2021-02-17T18:38:42.957Z]	<cel>	... i hate to redo the work already out there that is 10 years old
[2021-02-17T18:38:44.332Z]	<Phil.L>	+1 for Jonathon's comment. We need to collaborate
[2021-02-17T18:38:44.713Z]	<wayne>	ack manu
[2021-02-17T18:38:47.476Z]	<Tobias_Looker>	q+
[2021-02-17T18:39:08.933Z]	<TallTed>	see https://www.hl7.org/fhir/
[2021-02-17T18:39:13.766Z]	<cel>	manu: +1 to work item. i am participating in VCI work, Josh Mandel leading, Jonathan participating
[2021-02-17T18:39:23.689Z]	<cel>	... big use of HL7. a lot of VCI stuff trying to integrate that
[2021-02-17T18:39:35.428Z]	<cel>	... trying to make sure all these different initiatives are aligned. cannot ignore HL7
[2021-02-17T18:39:48.853Z]	<cel>	... question is to tobias - the good thing here is that there is a good VC wrapper around this
[2021-02-17T18:40:04.978Z]	<cel>	... what goes inside the credential subject, how to keep the other work aligned
[2021-02-17T18:40:34.360Z]	<wayne>	ack Tobias
[2021-02-17T18:40:34.539Z]	<cel>	... other people gravitating to VCs, but slightly different. could lead to massive noninteroperability. what is being done to align them?
[2021-02-17T18:40:57.307Z]	<cel>	Tobias_Looker: we are interested in the RDF representation
[2021-02-17T18:41:07.431Z]	<cel>	... added the features required to make it easier to express this
[2021-02-17T18:41:14.544Z]	<cel>	... welcome other with further expertise to align
[2021-02-17T18:41:27.775Z]	<cel>	... at end of day, would be great for this vocab to be a recomposition of other definitions like HL7
[2021-02-17T18:41:31.839Z]	<gannan>	VCI - https://vaccinationcredential.org/
[2021-02-17T18:41:40.097Z]	<cel>	... composing it into the form required is what that becomes.
[2021-02-17T18:41:50.847Z]	<cel>	... also adding any associated documentation to make it relevant in the context of VCs
[2021-02-17T18:41:52.616Z]	<manu>	q+ to ask Tobias to speak to CBOR-LD aspects.
[2021-02-17T18:42:02.367Z]	<cel>	... work item evolving to be a thin mapping later would be ideal
[2021-02-17T18:42:20.613Z]	<jonathan>	q+
[2021-02-17T18:42:24.723Z]	<cel>	wayne: commend this behavior of commenting on past specifications without techno-arrogance
[2021-02-17T18:42:31.047Z]	<wayne>	ack manu
[2021-02-17T18:42:41.673Z]	<cel>	manu: Tobias, can you speak about the CBOR-LD?
[2021-02-17T18:42:49.665Z]	<cel>	... gets the scan size for the QR code down
[2021-02-17T18:42:56.924Z]	<cel>	... why is having a printable version important?
[2021-02-17T18:42:58.234Z]	<identitywoman>	John Walker at CCI has been wroking on a FHIR to JSON-LD translator
[2021-02-17T18:43:04.718Z]	<gannan>	Vaccine Credential FHIR Implementation Guide - http://build.fhir.org/ig/dvci/vaccine-credential-ig/branches/main/
[2021-02-17T18:43:06.343Z]	<identitywoman>	To build on existing work within FHIR
[2021-02-17T18:43:25.040Z]	<cel>	Tobias_Looker: CBOR-LD (by Digital Bazaar) a cool tool to be able to losslessly convert a JSON-LD document while preserving semantics in a terser form
[2021-02-17T18:43:35.013Z]	<gannan>	SMART Health Cards Framework - https://smarthealth.cards/
[2021-02-17T18:43:41.866Z]	<cel>	... initiatives we are a part of: around the world, tech in general, access to tech, is varied.
[2021-02-17T18:43:58.618Z]	<cel>	... many of opinion that credentials should not start from the assumption that the holder has access to a device or the internet
[2021-02-17T18:44:12.166Z]	<agropper>	q+
[2021-02-17T18:44:13.210Z]	<cel>	... how do we integrate the lowest-tech solutions - paper-based mediums
[2021-02-17T18:44:38.046Z]	<cel>	... one approach is to take a VC and print it out as  QR code. it is verifible, sigs intact.
[2021-02-17T18:44:54.434Z]	<gannan>	Associated Repos - https://github.com/dvci/vaccine-credential-ig & https://github.com/smart-on-fhir/health-cards/
[2021-02-17T18:44:58.458Z]	<cel>	... fundamental limitation on info to encode in a QR code before it becomes unscannable with common cameras
[2021-02-17T18:45:10.102Z]	<cel>	... JSON-LD: verbose. must look for techniques to get info into more compressed form
[2021-02-17T18:45:32.371Z]	<cel>	... due to Digital Bazaar's approach pioneered with CBOR-LD, we have an approach to bring it down to a terse form
[2021-02-17T18:45:46.595Z]	<wayne>	ack jonathan
[2021-02-17T18:45:51.714Z]	<cel>	... discussion underway. how for VCs to cater to a host of less-talked about use cases
[2021-02-17T18:46:08.447Z]	<cel>	jonathan: i'm a physician. involved in DID and VCs for 2 years. just got covid vaccination last week
[2021-02-17T18:46:22.543Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	q+ to agree with jonathan
[2021-02-17T18:46:23.779Z]	<cel>	... even though work in this space, i got a paper card. will be volunteering to vaccinate thousands of people
[2021-02-17T18:46:34.771Z]	<cel>	... hesitant that vaccination should be the driving use case for VCs
[2021-02-17T18:46:46.848Z]	<cel>	... optimistic if can be synergize quickly, but also realist about impl details
[2021-02-17T18:46:48.586Z]	<wayne>	ack agropper
[2021-02-17T18:47:09.430Z]	<cel>	agropper: we seem to have a run on physicians commenting here. i too am pretty negative on using vaccination as a use case for VCs as QR codes
[2021-02-17T18:47:33.248Z]	<cel>	... though i certainly understand there are going to be many uses for long-lasting credentials to carry in wallet for years
[2021-02-17T18:47:45.900Z]	<mprorock>	q+ use case on qr codes
[2021-02-17T18:47:55.824Z]	<Tobias_Looker>	q+ to respond to adrians
[2021-02-17T18:47:59.164Z]	<identitywoman>	To see John Walkers work on FHIR to JSON-LD he presented this morning at the DIF Healthcare working group - https://us02web.zoom.us/rec/play/aNxTM4SsEXVC43HPTuwLMjNahLv6sdbKEoqYcCteVvRj2FI24y4jRnSGmngboAyYX5VhIzR83-FSLOYh.eaG-ZCFPOkT15niN?continueMode=true&_x_zm_rtaid=ClSYZSifROCmOKBq_z3xug.1613587563233.3b5f44e4e71aabc67494b03eb9b26674&_x_zm_rhtaid=423
[2021-02-17T18:48:04.992Z]	<cel>	... the problem  with the vaccine use case: presumes that the mechanism has you there in person. in reality, not only are these things used very seldom (revocation/changes), you have to have the same mechanism for testing
[2021-02-17T18:48:15.175Z]	<cel>	... test results show up when the person is no longer there to present a paper credential
[2021-02-17T18:48:42.081Z]	<cel>	... what i've done and what is already happening (e.g. in India): people will have and control an online account. they will put their credentials in the online account, and control it in various authorization mechanisms
[2021-02-17T18:48:56.572Z]	<identitywoman>	There is work going on within the US vaccine credential working group - specifically consdiering how people can get a digital vaccination record out of the state level IIS systems.
[2021-02-17T18:49:02.469Z]	<cel>	... don't have descrimination issues about mobile devices. don't assume that QR code has anything other than a pointer
[2021-02-17T18:49:10.013Z]	<wayne>	ack Manu
[2021-02-17T18:49:15.467Z]	<cel>	... recommend QR code points to an authorization server, or many a DID, but not a VC
[2021-02-17T18:49:20.963Z]	<identitywoman>	the India DIVOC project is giving people a JSON-LD VC in paper form - not a pointer.
[2021-02-17T18:49:40.477Z]	<cel>	manu: agree with what jonathan and adrian have said. i am also skeptical we will be able to roll out anything before everyone just has a piece of paper to use
[2021-02-17T18:49:58.426Z]	<cel>	... why work on this: i think it's useful for the future in general. 3-5 year time frame, lot of interest
[2021-02-17T18:50:00.329Z]	<identitywoman>	https://divoc.egov.org.in/
[2021-02-17T18:50:13.711Z]	<cel>	... work we do now will probably miss this pandemic, but there may be another
[2021-02-17T18:50:37.718Z]	<cel>	... Privacy implications with putting personal id in the item
[2021-02-17T18:51:11.440Z]	<cel>	... what might do better: provide authorization through printed document. using a ZKAP with CBOR-LD. effectively an auth token to access medical record
[2021-02-17T18:51:36.037Z]	<cel>	... can use to update records sitting in EDV, while give them something they can maybe print out every  month or two (but may expire)
[2021-02-17T18:51:59.319Z]	<cel>	wayne: personally i prefer this to happen in the open rather than under wraps. by collaborating in public, anyone can raise concerns.
[2021-02-17T18:52:12.817Z]	<cel>	... more scrutiny than deciding in a closed room
[2021-02-17T18:52:28.694Z]	<cel>	... EFF taking a measured approached. recognizes VC spec recognizes privacy concern of long-term identifiers
[2021-02-17T18:52:41.466Z]	<cel>	... Have tools to call out specific behaviors without damning a whole technology
[2021-02-17T18:52:50.847Z]	<cel>	... allows for better discussion. starts with spirit of openness
[2021-02-17T18:52:51.370Z]	<Tobias_Looker>	q-
[2021-02-17T18:53:01.213Z]	<cel>	... moving on, ahve to cover vocab items and linked data security
[2021-02-17T18:53:13.709Z]	<mprorock>	q-
[2021-02-17T18:53:50.973Z]	<cel>	Tobias_Looker: totally agree with a lot of points made. Adrian's points: by reference or by value, vacc cert in QR code has pros and cons to approaches. keep to hear feedback. competing requirements. offline verification: requires encoded directly
[2021-02-17T18:54:01.128Z]	<cel>	... some people opted to have sharded across multiple QR codes
[2021-02-17T18:54:04.650Z]	<mprorock>	real world use case for us for the QR paper is on farm labor - complicated issue, but doing it in the open is quite helpful for us
[2021-02-17T18:54:37.207Z]	<cel>	wayne: take cursory overview, expound on in further discussions
[2021-02-17T18:54:51.509Z]	<cel>	mprorock: farm labor use cases. important topic for discussion in ML and issues
[2021-02-17T18:55:11.658Z]	<cel>	wayne: last 6 minutes of meeting. love to continue vaccination discussions on ML
[2021-02-17T18:55:19.386Z]	<cel>	... Why vocabularies?
[2021-02-17T18:55:32.011Z]	<cel>	... what necessary about them, what can they help with
[2021-02-17T18:55:34.122Z]	<dmitriz>	q+
[2021-02-17T18:55:39.442Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	ack dmitriz
[2021-02-17T18:55:49.385Z]	<cel>	... maybe even remind us of JSON-LD
[2021-02-17T18:56:03.959Z]	<cel>	dmitriz: couple quick comments about vocabularies, as a developer of both JSON-LD and libraries in general
[2021-02-17T18:56:12.316Z]	<cel>	... you can think of vocabs as loose schemas and conversion maps
[2021-02-17T18:56:31.835Z]	<cel>	... two biggest benefits i see that they give: 1. schema migration. have a data model and then stuff changes
[2021-02-17T18:56:43.502Z]	<cel>	... vocab allows you to change schema and migrate without breaking stuff
[2021-02-17T18:56:50.933Z]	<cel>	... other thing: vocabularies allow for really good compression
[2021-02-17T18:57:00.172Z]	<cel>	... more than other mechanisms, including Zip, etc.
[2021-02-17T18:57:15.198Z]	<cel>	... because vocabularies provide a schema-like engine, they also serve as compression dictionaries
[2021-02-17T18:57:34.987Z]	<cel>	... surprising upshot: when you use data structures using JSON-LD using vocabularies, you get unmatched levels of compression
[2021-02-17T18:57:40.344Z]	<cel>	... starts to matter with QR codes, etc
[2021-02-17T18:57:46.717Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	q+
[2021-02-17T18:57:49.212Z]	<cel>	wayne: Vocabularies?
[2021-02-17T18:57:49.564Z]	<wayne>	ack Manu
[2021-02-17T18:58:07.467Z]	<cel>	manu: slightly different direction. vocabularies are fundamentally how you know that you are talking about the same thing
[2021-02-17T18:58:21.820Z]	<mprorock>	+1 manu ontology and interchange of information
[2021-02-17T18:58:37.793Z]	<cel>	... think about having convo with someone: happens in a context. if meet up at IIW, convo and words probably in English, using identity vocabulary that all of us kindof know
[2021-02-17T18:58:50.698Z]	<cel>	... vocab: how two different things know that they are talking about the same thing. true for JSON-LD and true for machines
[2021-02-17T18:59:01.679Z]	<cel>	... machines talking to eachother have to be sure they are talking about the same thing
[2021-02-17T18:59:08.898Z]	<by_caballero>	A very interesting CCI/LFPH project translating FHIR messages (and the IEEE standards jonathan mentioned) into LD was presented last week here (recording and minutes): https://github.com/decentralized-identity/healthcare/blob/main/agenda.md#february-10-2021---note-new-time-7am-pacific-4pm-cet---fhir-and-oca-with-some-talk-about-cci-vci
[2021-02-17T18:59:17.112Z]	<JoeAndrieu>	q?
[2021-02-17T18:59:20.252Z]	<cel>	... vaccination vocab, etc., create language for machines to use so that they know what they are talking about, a shipment, crop, etc.
[2021-02-17T18:59:30.332Z]	<JoeAndrieu>	q+ to mention collaboration wrt vocabularies
[2021-02-17T18:59:32.724Z]	<by_caballero>	may be of interest to people thinking about LD as a translation-booster for FHIR into multiple output VC formats :D
[2021-02-17T18:59:35.309Z]	<cel>	... about semantics and understanding the info we are exchanging. fundamental to what we are doing in the CCG
[2021-02-17T18:59:37.198Z]	<wayne>	ack JoeA
[2021-02-17T18:59:52.041Z]	<cel>	... credential is fundamentally talking about something; need a vocabulary for that.
[2021-02-17T19:00:02.689Z]	<cel>	JoeAndrieu: key thing  about vocabulary is that is shared
[2021-02-17T19:00:08.286Z]	<by_caballero>	ubuntu semantics :D
[2021-02-17T19:00:13.809Z]	<cel>	... by working on it in the open, increases its sharability
[2021-02-17T19:00:20.140Z]	<cel>	wayne: thanks. will reconvene next week
[2021-02-17T19:00:28.619Z]	<Tobias_Looker>	Thanks all
[2021-02-17T19:00:32.644Z]	<heathervescent>	present+
[2021-02-17T19:00:52.170Z]	<wayne>	kicking to turn off cgbot.....
