Thanks to Our Robot Overlords for scribing this week!

The transcript for the call is now available here:

https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/2025-03-11/

Full text of the discussion follows for W3C archival purposes.
Audio of the meeting is available at the following location:

https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/2025-03-11/audio.ogg

A video recording is also available at:

https://meet.w3c-ccg.org/archives/w3c-ccg-weekly-2025-03-11.mp4

----------------------------------------------------------------
W3C CCG Weekly Teleconference Transcript for 2025-03-11

Agenda:
  https://www.w3.org/Search/Mail/Public/advanced_search?hdr-1-name=subject&hdr-1-query=%5BAGENDA&period_month=Mar&period_year=2025&index-grp=Public__FULL&index-type=t&type-index=public-credentials&resultsperpage=20&sortby=date
Organizer:
  Harrison Tang, Kimberly Linson, Will Abramson
Scribe:
  Our Robot Overlords
Present:
  Harrison Tang, Manu Sporny, Erica Connell, Jeff O / HumanOS, 
  Hiroyuki Sano, TallTed // Ted Thibodeau (he/him) 
  (OpenLinkSw.com), PL, Benjamin Young, Joe Andrieu, Jennie Meier, 
  James Chartrand, Rodrigo, Mahmoud Alkhraishi, Nate Otto, Vanessa, 
  Rob Padula, Will Abramson, Chandi Cumaranatunge, Leo, David I. 
  Lehn, Dmitri Zagidulin, tomj, Nis Jespersen , Greg Bernstein, 
  Geun-Hyung Kim, Andrea D'Intino | Forkbomb BV, Susan Stroud @ 
  Lifequipt, Brian Richter, Nivas, Olvis Gil RÃ­os

Our Robot Overlords are scribing.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Welcome everyone to our March 11th ccg call 
  today we will be conducting our quarterly review and we will talk 
  about some work item updates and some ideas that we are going to 
  be uh floating around as chairs that we hope to get the 
  community's input on and see you know an initial response to them 
  and we can talk about implementing them.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Uh Harrison and Will are both with me today 
  and you know uh please feel free to interrupt and if anybody has 
  anything.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:   We will.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Will keep be using our queuing system um as 
  a reminder we any substantive contributions to the w3c ccg do 
  require you to have signed our IPR agreement.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Um is there anybody who would like to 
  introduce themselves anybody new to our.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Group okay um let's get started with today's 
  agenda then unless anybody has any announcements I'd like to 
  make.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Uh Harrison can you share screen oh man 
  please go ahead.
Manu Sporny:  Yeah just a few high-level things I I sent this to 
  the mailing list but um uh We've started on.
Manu Sporny:  Tooling that would allow us to use uh Google meet 
  um and uh record.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Can I cut you off there sorry please Mano 
  there's a section that we will talk through that if that's okay 
  um I appreciate that sorry about that um is there anything else 
  that anybody would like to cover.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Okay um yes please mano.
Manu Sporny:  Yeah that was just the the first of a couple um the 
  other items are.
Manu Sporny:  Um we are now uh meeting regularly reminders the VC 
  API call is later uh today um where we will be kind of testing 
  that New Media infrastructure we'll talk about that later um we 
  are probably going to start having uh meetings around uh render 
  method and uh confidence method uh just to get uh those uh kind 
  of uh cleaned up um we may also start meeting about did key uh 
  because that you know we need to clean that up before it might be 
  proposed as a standard stack at w3c and then um uh every Friday 
  now there's a growing number of people meeting around data 
  integrity and uh.
Manu Sporny:  Uh BBS uh post Quantum uh unlink signatures uh new 
  types of ZK proof ZK snarks CK Starks um liero uh uh redacted 
  signatures so there's a lot of kind of cryptography uh work um to 
  support kind of the verifiable credentials work that's happening 
  uh on Fridays as well so um I think we'll need to chat with the 
  chairs to figure out how we.
Manu Sporny:  Get all of these kind of meetings on the on the 
  calendar and um and that sort of thing that's.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Yes um we will be hopefully part of our 
  process updates is making sure that that process is easier and 
  more transparent um we don't have an answer to you on that today 
  but may I know if you could just reach out to us we will get them 
  on the calendar ASAP.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Thank you um well did you want to go over 
  the wallet conference announcement.
Will Abramson:  Oh sure yeah so this is just uh I guess an 
  initial update to the group uh the w3c has been participating 
  with the open wall foundation and a bunch of other groups uh I 
  think they started meeting at Davos and they were talking about 
  wallets and like trying to set up uh.
Will Abramson:   A for.
Will Abramson:  Where the discussion could continue um like 
  without it being anyone's patch if that makes sense you know I 
  have trying to be uh vendor neutral if you like and they're 
  looking at arranging a work a workshop or conference in Geneva 
  the first and second of July uh with a focus on wallets to try 
  and convene a bunch of groups like w3c iatf um.
Will Abramson:  If what Foundation.
Will Abramson:  And basically you know they want to we want some 
  people to go.
Will Abramson:  I think the w3c is going to send some of the team 
  contacts I mean I'm really just sharing this is very tensive I 
  don't even have a link to share with you uh so.
Will Abramson:  So we just wanted to.
Will Abramson:  Let the community know that this is happening and 
  you know if there is interest um.
Will Abramson:   In a.
<mahmoud_alkhraishi> July 1-2 in Geneva
Will Abramson:  Then we'll we'll let folks know um as as that 
  becomes more available the WGC potentially has tickets but I 
  don't know how you know this is still in flux I just wanted to 
  let folks know.
Will Abramson:  So that's being had because I has any comments on 
  the job on the queue.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Uh I think you covered it well and just as a 
  reminder this is July 1st and 2nd in Geneva so this is more of a 
  save the date kind of announcement rather than a.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Here is what you would like to do right.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Um the VC working group has just 
  transitioned 7 documents to proposed recommendation that has been 
  approved.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  And the next step is it will go to the 
  advisor committee is there anybody here from that can speak to 
  that a little bit.
Manu Sporny:  Yeah yeah um yes so exactly what she said Mahmud um 
  uh we have uh successfully uh passed the transition uh phase they 
  should be published as proposed recommendations in 9 days um at 
  that point an announcement will go out to the w3c advisory 
  committee which consists of 400 and I forget what the count is 
  now 450 plus companies um uh and the voting process uh will start 
  on whether or not to make this Global uh standard um at this 
  point we're not expecting any surprises but you know the way 
  these things work almost always there's some kind of uh surprised 
  that no 1 was expecting so um uh the only thing that can happen 
  at this point is you know a w3c member would formally object uh 
  uh to uh the any 1 of the 7 documents um and then that might 
  require.
Manu Sporny:  Um a formal objection Council to form and figure 
  out if they want to overrule the objection or keep the objection 
  and ask the working group to do more work or whether or not uh 
  the the the standards end up getting published uh as as Global 
  standards so again you know these things have been under 
  development for 3 years you would think that at this point 
  someone would have said something um that that you know would 
  would uh where they've stated it would result in a formal 
  objection but um that's where we are right now so that voting 
  period will be open for probably about a month um it'll be open 
  from like March 20th to you know April 20th.
Manu Sporny:  And then if it looks like um everything's going 
  fine the final Global recommendations the global standards for 
  those 7 specifications uh will go out um and then the verifiable 
  credential working group will continue uh it's it's chartered 
  work which means maintaining the version 2 you know data model 
  maintaining all the other you know data Integrity VC hosie cozy 
  bitstring status list specifications um and then working on 
  things like finally getting around to render method and 
  confidence method and some of the other things that are are in 
  scope BBS is also 1 of those big things that's still in scope 
  that the working group would would work towards um so I think 
  that's where we are right now.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Awesome thank you mano.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  No 1 else has any other announcements I'd 
  like us to go to the slide deck for today's conversation.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Okay Harrison can you share a screen please 
  thank you.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Excellent thank you we're going to do a 
  couple of things a little bit differently from the past the first 
  is we're going to have a quick process and communication reminder 
  we're going to talk about the work items and this is what we've 
  always been doing so we're going to go through each work item 
  that is currently live and try and get a status update on it and 
  last but not least we're going to talk about some proposals and 
  upcoming changes that the chairs have and try and get the 
  community's feedback and review on it so for the process of 
  communication reminders.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Um if you can go ahead please Harrison and 
  the slide after that please.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Would like to make a quick reminder about 
  the w3c code of conduct it is what is binding on us as a W3 cccg 
  we have had some incidents last year I want to make sure that 
  this is.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Here to buy everybody the goal here is for 
  us to have an open inclusive space that we can all collaborate in 
  and build and we can all Thrive um both of these links are found 
  at the w3c ccg website and the bullet points there are taken 
  straight from the website and they're very straightforward they 
  basically say please be kind please try and work together and 
  please try your best to act in good faith.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Um if there are no questions or comments on 
  the process communication reminder we can go ahead to the work.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Uh VC API.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Can someone from the VC API walk us through 
  it please.
Manu Sporny:  Yeah I can probably take this 1 um so things in 
  green are the new things uh things in Gray are like the things we 
  reported on last time so um the key highlights so the verifiable 
  credentials API is an API that helps you manage uh the verifiable 
  credentials life cycle that includes everything from uh issuance 
  uh to holding to verification to workflows and exchanges and a 
  variety of things there uh it it also includes the verifiable 
  presentation request uh specification and just general kind of 
  incubation of those activities um uh just as a reminder to 
  everyone uh it also supports oid 4 Vesey and oid 4 VP meaning 
  that a verifiable credential API is a is a super set of oidc oid 
  4V CI I know ID 4 VP so it supports those protocols as well um uh 
  for doing verifiable credential delivery um this.
Manu Sporny:  Was used as a 1 of the optional ways of 
  demonstrating um uh uh interop with the verifiable credential uh 
  test Suites we have 25 Implement at this point that Implement 
  some set subset of the VCA Pi certainly not all of it uh but 
  definitely issuance and and verification uh Services uh that's up 
  9 from the last time we reported on this which I guess was last 
  last quarter so a bunch of new implementations largely driven by 
  the verifiable credentials going to um going to propose 
  recommendation.
<dmitri_zagidulin> (the DCC open source issuer suite also uses 
  VC-API fwiw)
Manu Sporny:  Uh the other updates here is that there are 
  production deployments of this thing so it's not like you know 
  some you know academic you know spec writing exercise these are 
  deployed in production for systems like true age they're deployed 
  in production at California DMV uh they're deployed in production 
  for the open Credit open source um uh verifier uh in most 
  recently they've been adopted by the retail sector uh as a way of 
  exchanging verifiable credentials for retail use cases which 
  include things like um uh Loyalty cards uh payments um uh uh uh 
  uh age verification credentials um identity credentials uh things 
  of that nature so and that's at a standards level that's not a 
  you know we've got a couple of retailers playing around with it 
  it's been adopted as a basis for retail standards um.
Manu Sporny:  We as you know as everyone has heard over the past 
  kind of year uh we proposed at W3 CT pack to take this standards 
  track um uh in got you know positive feedback on that uh the 
  plane is to propose it to go standards track and Q2 of this year 
  right after the verifiable credential working group publishes its 
  current set of specs uh there'll be a proposal for a charter 
  update to include um VC API and VPR and things like that um and 
  that's so that you know we can ing include it in the digital 
  credential uh API uh I think that's it uh as far as an update um 
  for this work item.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Thank you Mana uh next slide is going to be 
  on the VC working group test Suite I don't know if Benjamin is on 
  here.
Benjamin Young:  Yeah I'm here.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Can you please walk us through it.
Benjamin Young:  Yeah sure so this is uh primarily just a list of 
  test Suites that we have um through the working group so the core 
  of ecdm 2.0 spec the various data integrity and crypto Suite.
Benjamin Young:   Bit string.
Benjamin Young:  Status list and the Josie cozy and VC Json 
  schema spec um and if these slides go out later there's obviously 
  links to all of those if you can go to the next slide Harrison.
Benjamin Young:  Uh this shows implementers across the board with 
  the green numbers being the new ones since the last time we did 
  this update.
Benjamin Young:  We have well surpassed the the minimum number of 
  required implementers um for all the.
Benjamin Young:  Top group of specs we have 3 for housing cozy uh 
  VC Json schema still lacks implementation so if there's anyone.
Benjamin Young:  Room who has a VC Json schema spec and just 
  hasn't taken the time to integrate with that test Suite um please 
  do but we're very pleased with the the turnout for 
  implementations and how everyone's done on the test Suite has 
  been has been really Stellar um I think I've got 1 more slide 
  here and.
Benjamin Young:  And these this slide was not in the last update 
  that we did there are ccg level test Suites um there's the did 
  key method which is um.
Benjamin Young:  I think they only did method currently 
  maintained by the ccg it has a a test Suite um.
Benjamin Young:  Now and I think it's mostly sat idle for the 
  last year so but it does have sufficient implementations should 
  It Go recommendation track and as you can see from the VC API 
  issuer and verifier test Suite.
Benjamin Young:  List of implementers.
Benjamin Young:  2 Test Suites have uh.
Benjamin Young:  Li massive coverage since only 2 are required um 
  there's a good a good list on both of those so um those are also 
  integrable and the same way that the WG ones are they follow the 
  same pattern there's a Json document you describe your 
  implementation and and tag which uh test Suite you want to have 
  run against your implementation um I'm happy to help anyone on 
  board for any of these test Suites.
Benjamin Young:  That's great to hear.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Thank you man um as someone who has had to 
  integrate with these test Suites it was a very very 
  straightforward process and I really appreciate all the amount of 
  work and you know all the hard work you did to make it that way 
  that's really really great job um next up is the data integration 
  2.0 incubation data Integrity sorry um and this is the Friday 
  calls is that right Mana.
Manu Sporny:  Yes that's correct Muhammad um yeah so this thing 
  this call is kind of growing so it it started on Fridays as a way 
  for like the data Integrity spec editors in the verifiable 
  credential working group to just work on things specific to data 
  Integrity um but over time people mentioned that you know they 
  want to talk about like next-gen BBS stuff they want to talk 
  about you know Anonymous rate limiting selective redaction Lehigh 
  so the the call has now grown to like anyone that's interested in 
  kind of the Next Generation crypto that we would try and 
  standardize through verifiable credential working group or some 
  other you know w3c working group more focused on data Integrity 
  um so the things in scope are like Quantum Safe digital 
  signatures um uh that uh work is being uh led by Andrea at uh 
  Fork bomb and dine um there are a number of other people that are 
  really interested in in.
Manu Sporny:  You know adding the fips stuff that's a fairly 
  straightforward spec um uh there's been new work that will has 
  done on uh Shore uh signatures sep 2566 K1 signature so that work 
  uh is included and we're starting to incubate like some pretty 
  interesting things as well that that have a pretty fast track 
  through so we're finalizing things like unlink disclosure using 
  BBS um specifically the blind BBS in pseudonym BBS work um that 
  work is primarily designed to protect holders from credential um 
  uh cloning attacks or protect verifiers from credential cloning 
  attacks so blind BBS protects holders from uh uh credit people 
  stealing their credentials and using them on their behalf and uh 
  uh suit.
Manu Sporny:  From someone having stolen somebody else's 
  credential or someone having resold their their credential on a 
  on a gray Market um from uh attacking verifiers uh so again those 
  are critical to like an unlink uh ecosystem.
Manu Sporny:  More recently um uh um uh we've had some um uh 
  contributions from uh people in Google and the Privacy sandbox 
  around Anonymous rate limiting in using BBS uh to do that uh 
  that's that's they're they're like all kinds of super interesting 
  things that you can do with that um like um um proof of 
  personhood like right you know real solutions for proof of 
  personhood where you can engage in an unlink but there's a rate 
  limiting that that protects against uh civils in a in a network 
  um uh we've got the Singaporean um government um with their 
  selective redaction technique uh that we're taking a look at 
  trying to figure out what Primitives we can standardize their 
  there's new stuff around ecdsa leher which allows you to do 
  unlink using traditional crypto.
Manu Sporny:   Photography it's.
Manu Sporny:  Complicated and computationally intense but it's to 
  the point where you can do some of these computations on a mobile 
  phone um and we found that the the solutions there are more 
  elegant than uh doing it on an mdl or an MDOC it just so happens 
  that the way we're doing data Integrity um atomizes the 
  statements in a way that makes liero more uh uh computationally 
  uh lightweight uh when applied to W3 cvc's and and um and data 
  integrity and then of course you know the the the the.
Manu Sporny:  Great New Horizon that we're marching towards is 
  unlink post-quantum schemes for this stuff so um we've done uh 
  actually you know Greg in in the in the in the in the diff you 
  know applied cryptography group have done some really great work 
  creating repeatable Primitives um that we're using in the prequel 
  uh cryptography that.
Manu Sporny:  Believe are also uh potentially reusable in 
  post-quantum schemes so the good news here is we don't have to 
  start over from scratch we think there's some uh stuff that we 
  can reuse that that stuff's like you know still I don't know 2 
  years off plus but it's important that we do the work because um 
  of the Potential Threat from a actual large scale quantum 
  computer um I think that's it for the update there we need 
  Fridays as um Muhammad mentioned.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  A couple of questions on my end here the 
  first is um when you say these things are being incubated at in 
  that group do you believe the out what do you believe the outcome 
  of that incubation will be we're talking about ccg work items are 
  we talking about broader things.
Manu Sporny:  Uh ccg work items prymrr will be the primary output 
  um so they're either already a ccg work items like the DI Quantum 
  safe thing I think I don't know where is but I think well you 
  intend on bringing it to ccg and then the other things are things 
  that will either grow onto the existing specs at VCW or ccg or 
  like the ecdsa liero thing or the unlink Quantum scheme will 
  probably result in new ccg incubated specs.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  That's awesome to hear and sorry to put you 
  on the on the spot but this morning I saw that hqc was announced 
  as the winner of the nist pqc competition do you think that's 
  going to be something that would come up in this group or is this 
  something that will be talked about in other locations.
Manu Sporny:  You are more up-to-date on the news than I am my 
  friend uh.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  This is this morning or maybe like an hour 
  ago so.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Okay fair enough.
Manu Sporny:  Yeah I know I know I I haven't read the I haven't 
  read it yet so I can't speak to it maybe somebody else from the 
  data Integrity group could speak to it.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  That's okay we can we can cover it at a 
  later time but thank you man for the update this was wonderful.
<harrison_tang> you are too up-to-date, mahmoud
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Um next up we have the VC render method and 
  I see we have Dimitri online Dimitri do you want to give us an 
  update on it.
<harrison_tang> i still have yet to catch up on my emails
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Harrison if you can move to that slide 
  please thank you.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  I'm not the best person uh to do the update on 
  it in that oh you're talking about Vashon not VC.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  So for the VC education if you could give us 
  an update that would be wonderful I don't think we have anything 
  on the slides for it though.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Got it yeah so um uh VC education task force 
  uh has a standing call on Mondays uh at 11:00 am Eastern uh we 
  essentially talk about Advanced implementation topics uh and like 
  data models and protocols in the area of verified presentation 
  sorry verify what credentials in the.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Vertical so uh we we were 1 of the first ones 
  to hit up against.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Need for VC rendering uh we're currently uh 
  working on a uh year-long project with digital credentials 
  Consortium credential engine and uh big handful of other 
  companies on.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Uh we did a comparison of or rather the the 
  issue registry project did a comparison of um the half a dozen 
  existing issue registry specs uh implementing a registry running 
  it for a number of months to report out.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Uh we also do a lot of um sort of community 
  coordination uh between like Europe and the US in terms of data 
  models 1 of the things that uh we're working on is uh we we 
  helped the 1 Ed Tech uh standards body with um open badges 
  version 3 credentials which are widely used in the education 
  space.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Uh so that's that's what we do in general so 
  like if you're if you're a credential implementation team uh most 
  of the calls will usually be interesting to you because uh we're 
  working on uh.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Like fairly big open source sometimes closed 
  Source sometimes uh deployments and implementations of our fiber 
  credential plus education has its own uh really interesting 
  vertical that make some credential things easier and others 
  harder uh this this first quarter of the year has been fairly 
  quiet uh been a been a lot of um uh holidays and like last month 
  and cancellations uh but we're anticipating uh like the next to 
  this this this coming quarter focusing on so updates on the issue 
  registry projects.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Report out from uh various open source Forks 
  of wallets that uh universities are trying out.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Uh continuing work on um the VC render method 
  with the with the emphasis of rendering verify credentials as 
  PDFs.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Uh and uh report out on our uh.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Uh Community liaison with the human resources 
  standards bodies such as HR open uh where we're helping um the 
  development of resume verifiable credentials so that's that's us 
  in a nutshell.
<tomj> i noticer that the ISO 18013 working papers are now 
  publiic.  https://github.com/ISOWG10/ISO-18013
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Awesome thank you so much that that was a 
  very good overview um next up is the VC render method um menu 
  please.
<greg_bernstein> See https://csrc.nist.gov/pubs/ir/8545/final, 
  HQC is a new PQC KEM (key encapsulation mechanism). This is not a 
  signature algorithm so would not be used to secure VCs.
Manu Sporny:  Yeah I can probably take this 1 and not noting that 
  like what Demetri said like we need to get together with the VC 
  edu folks to make sure that we've got all the PDF renderings in 
  scope so that you know whatever we end up trying to uh 
  standardized at the verifiable credential working group works for 
  VC edu and the various other Market verticals so um uh the green 
  stuff is a new stuff it says that the incubation finalization 
  meetings will start this week uh next week uh not this week 
  unfortunately um uh there are multiple organizations around the 
  world that are uh working on rendering so again Singapore um uh 
  Cambodia um Australia have the you know open attestation style 
  renderers so there's 1 approach there um uh we've got other 
  implementations like on the verifiable credential playground.
Manu Sporny:   Uh that.
<mahmoud_alkhraishi> Thanks Greg!
Manu Sporny:  Um as rendering templates as Demetri mentioned uh 
  PDF uh is another uh very um uh uh uh strong kind of output 
  format for render method um uh and so I think we've we have 
  enough experimentation and incubation uh to write the first 
  version of something that we can standardize um just as a 
  reminder to everyone the um VC working group is currently 
  chartered to finalize this work so once we get to kind of a 
  decision in the decisions probably going to look pretty simple in 
  the in the early days we're probably just going to take like 
  allow SVG or PDF or any other type of kind of you know data model 
  or sorry a serialization that you can put curly braces double 
  curly braces in and then the double curly braces will expand to 
  uh properties in the verifiable credential so at the bottom of 
  the screen.
Manu Sporny:  You can see.
Manu Sporny:  The current output for VC render method is we have 
  an example of a driver's license an example of a certificate of 
  naturalization and an example of a first responder credential uh 
  these are all things that have some level of piloting uh behind 
  them um and so again with the the stuff that Demetri mentioned 
  that bced used been working on we think we've got more than 
  enough to to put together useful version 1 of spec for render 
  method um we'll start meeting ideally next week around 12 pm we 
  don't expect there to need us to need very many meetings to come 
  to consensus but you know how these things go maybe we will uh 
  that's it for render method and I can do the next slide as well 
  um Mahmood.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Next slide is going to be about the verify 
  the credential barcodes.
Manu Sporny:  Yes so um.
<tomj> please post link to bar code specs
Manu Sporny:  Not much has changed here other than these things 
  have gone through pilot phases um unfortunately can't talk about 
  the you know agencies doing a pilot phases but they're big um and 
  then uh we are expecting these things to go to production um 
  sometime Q2 of 2025 so in the next 3 months um we have multiple 
  implementations of it um the specs do need a little bit of 
  updating and and work but um what the the net net here is we've 
  been able to take a w3c verifiable credential in compress it down 
  to between 185 to 200 bytes um input that into uh driver's 
  licenses um uh uh and as well as like identity cards uh that use 
  Machinery readable zones that's the stuff that you see on 
  passports that's the example on the bottom so on the top you'll 
  see a driver's license that has an embedded verify.
Manu Sporny:   Fiable credential.
Manu Sporny:  Um uh at the bottom uh you have in uh employment 
  authorization document that has a digitally signed QR code that 
  um uh protects the information on the back of the card um which 
  can be scanned by a a Machine Vision um again the plan is to 
  propose this to go to standards track uh because we've got 
  multiple implementations um that are interrupting right now and 
  um.
Manu Sporny:  And to put it you know in a in a new VC working 
  group Charter uh that's it for that item.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Quick question on that please um you I don't 
  know if you I think you mentioned a lot I think I may have missed 
  it but our QR codes in or out of scope for this work.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Scope okay thank you.
Manu Sporny:  Well so I mean I guess the question is like uh.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Basically the same yeah.
Manu Sporny:  QR codes in scope for the VC barcodes work uh yes I 
  think so because they're like a slight variation yeah I mean like 
  the encoding slightly different but I think we could probably 
  just fit them in the same specification um.
Manu Sporny:  2 Did there are 2 different specs right now but I 
  think what we're trying to do is figure out and this will be a 
  part of the incubation discussion is like do we just collapse it 
  into 1 document because they're all just fundamentally 2D 
  barcodes and it really doesn't matter if you use pdf417 or QR 
  code or Matrix or pick any other you know favorite barcode 
  format.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Do you believe there's going to be any 
  changes to the VC barcodes prior to Q2 2025.
Manu Sporny:  Um it's it all depends on feedback so I Muhammad I 
  I would expect.
Manu Sporny:  There's stuff that's going to be shipped to 
  production and it's there's a question on does that become a 
  legacy thing that we talked about in the spec or do we just not 
  change things um you know how these things work like we have to 
  be open to changes across the board um that's what the standards 
  process is about right so.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  But you know expect any significant things.
<tomj> is this the working doc 
  https://w3c-ccg.github.io/vc-barcodes/#:~:text=Abstract,cards%20using%20standard%20printing%20processes.
Manu Sporny:  No no no we don't expect significant changes um we 
  we expect new people to show up with new use cases that might 
  need to extend what's in there right now.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Thank you that's wonderful.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Um we have a question about if this is the 
  working DOC for it would you be able to send a link to that menu 
  in the chat.
Manu Sporny:  Yeah that uh is it I believe.
Manu Sporny:  Yeah that's that's the current specification.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Excellent thank you.
Manu Sporny:  And it and it does you know it does not talk about 
  the QR code stuff the QR code stuff.
Manu Sporny:  We are waiting on our uh pilot partners and 
  production Partners to make press announcements before we can 
  announce that spec.
Manu Sporny:   Um I.
Manu Sporny:  Will note that the V the Respec VC specification 
  tool will already generate uh QR code based VCS.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  That's really nice to hear.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Thank you man uh next up is on verifiable 
  issuers and verifiers.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Do we have Isaac or David on.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Or anyone who could speak to this working 
  item.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Okay I guess we will Circle back and follow 
  up with Isaac and David out of bond.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Next up is the did linked resources that's 
  Alex and anchor.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:   Do we have.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Of them on.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Does anyone else can anyone else speak to 
  the working item working group item.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Okay uh thank you.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Um that's it for the updates on the working 
  group items thank you everyone um the next is an outline of some 
  of the proposals that we sat down as chairs and thought of and.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  The driving Vision behind it is what I want 
  to talk about first then I'd like to walk through a quick 
  overview of the proposals I know we only have 10 ish minutes 
  left.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  So we just did a quick ad hoc uh chair vote 
  and we think it would probably be a good idea to do a more 
  in-depth conversation about it next week as well.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  What we're going to do is today talk about 
  the ideas quickly let everybody you know marinate on it for a 
  week and we will talk about it more in depth next week um.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  The driving goal behind this is to bake 
  things the first is we want the ccg to be more inclusive and 
  easier for new people to join as someone who joined 5-ish years 
  ago I remember how intimidating it was to actually try and learn 
  everything there was to learn about this space and how hard it 
  was to write your first specification right and I want to give a 
  big shout out to all the people who helped me out with writing 
  our first uh spec and 1 of our goals is to make that easier for 
  everybody we would like to make it easier to create and build 
  working group items and for that reason we thought there's a few 
  different things we would like to do the first is to facilitate a 
  more educational space and make it easier for everybody to 
  communicate with each other right we have a lot of really really 
  good.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  A lot of people have very well-formed 
  opinions and very good reasons for them that they got there 
  through a lot of trial and error through a lot of you know 
  sitting down and thinking and working things out and we want to 
  explore a few different concepts the so the second big reason why 
  we want to do this is because having talked to everybody here and 
  having been to a few conferences I know that my favorite about 
  part of a conference is the water cooler you know chat where you 
  get to talk to people and you get a lot of stuff done really 
  right and so those 2 are the big driving forces behind some of 
  these proposals.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:   The first.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Debate format a lot of us have really good 
  strong ideas about things we think it would be a really good idea 
  to have people debate some Concepts and some ideas a very quick 
  example of that would be um Registries should we do them yes or 
  no I know some members of the community are very very strongly 
  opinionated on that and I know just even proposing that we'll 
  have Joe probably want to you know chop my head off but.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:   People don't.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Why Joe holds that strong opinion right 
  unless Joe tells them and I think Joe's got a lot of experience 
  on this and he's done well I'm sorry for singling you out Joe but 
  it's just the first thing that came to mind but if we have yeah.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  So if if we have a place for people to 
  explore that it's a very good way for us to all learn where we 
  don't derail um working group meetings that other people are 
  having write 1 of the big problems that I saw was in the 
  registry's conversation that happened in 1 of the VC working 
  group meetings was.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Joe wasn't able to articulate a lot of his 
  ideas because we like it was going to quote unquote derail the 
  conversation right and I feel like that's not that's the thing 
  that we as a community are missing and that's the thing that I 
  want us to try and get into and so hopefully a debate format 
  would let us have those ideas right so that's proposal number 1.
<kim_duffy> So we all debate Joe?
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Puzzle number 2 is the breakout rooms which 
  is a we all the video sounds like a fun plan yes um the the 
  breakout rooms is a second idea where we would all be able to 
  have the water cooler chats so it'd be something that would 
  happen maybe once a quarter maybe something twice a year where we 
  each have a room we each have little breakout uh we each have a 
  theme and work within breakout rooms and try and talk about why 
  that thing works why that doesn't work out to get it done it's a 
  way to hopefully get people's ideas of what are your biggest pain 
  points and how can we you know Foster that idea exchange right.
<manu_sporny> I'll hold Joe's spit bucket, talk him up, and spray 
  water on him from time to time.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  The third idea we had was um exploring an 
  educational series and this is not VCU this is VC 101 right what 
  or not just VCS this is more.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:   How do.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  We have decentralized identity verifiable 
  credentials essential identifiers in general why do we do the 
  things that we are doing and what are we really talking about I 
  know from the people who have joined um generally uh like the 
  people from my company specifically who have tried to get into 
  the ccg how much they've struggled to get in because they're just 
  not enough resources so we're hopefully exploring uh exploring 
  making a separate call that would just be hey this is a VC 101 
  and you can ask all your questions we can walk through this is 
  what you want to do and so on and so forth right and I'm looking 
  for volunteers or maybe resources or anything like that for this 
  and what to do and what not to do as well if anybody has any um 
  ideas there.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Um the last item I would like to talk about 
  is the jitsi zoom and Main and here menu if you would like to 
  walk through your updates I would appreciate that.
Manu Sporny:  It sure thing so um this has been kind of a 
  question that comes up um uh fairly regularly over our past like 
  11 years um rather than go go get into kind of the historical 
  details um uh I'll note that you know seeing this discussion come 
  up again um kind of prompted me to try to see where the most 
  recent kind of technology is uh specifically around Google meet 
  I've tried this with zoom before and it's been 3 times a failure 
  because of the way they've they've written some of their apis I 
  tried Google meet this time uh which means that it is possible 
  for us.
Manu Sporny:  With Google meet record the meetings transcribe the 
  meetings and then uh to some of us it's really important that we 
  archive our meetings external to.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: https://github.com/w3c-ccg/meetings
<mahmoud_alkhraishi> for the records
Manu Sporny:  Or Zoom or whatever to make sure that we don't lose 
  our record if if folks uh you know know like we we have records 
  going back to 2014 every single call that's been you know a a 
  standing call that's been recorded we have history going back um 
  uh 11 years at this point um and that's that's important uh not 
  only from kind of a library science historical perspective but 
  it's also really important to some of the companies that operate 
  in the space to make sure that they have proof If someone were to 
  inject a patent um a submarine patent into the discussion um it's 
  also a good way to ensure that if there's any kind of bullying uh 
  or um uh anti-competitive Behavior happening I'd kind of throws 
  cold water on on that kind of stuff so archiving um is is another 
  uh kind of useful thing so uh I noted on the mailing list that uh 
  there is a tool now um.
Manu Sporny:   That will.
Manu Sporny:  More or less what our current infrastructure does 
  it's a little more lame in that we don't have real time stuff we 
  don't have the advanced queuing system we don't have bridging to 
  IRC which some people care about uh and most importantly it is 
  totally not in open source platform we're going to be using it'll 
  be moving over to a proprietary system but I think we end up 
  saving um the things that matter you know the most over over the 
  long term which is a record um of our meetings the the other 
  thing that these tools do is that they fully automate we had 
  partial automation before.
Manu Sporny:  But the new tool fully automates the process 
  basically the chairs schedule a meeting um and then people just 
  show up and they talk and they run the meeting and all scribing 
  all attendees the recordings everything is auto archived in Auto 
  publish to the mailing list um after it happens so uh that is 
  what we've been trying to get to for like 11 years now it is.
Manu Sporny:  You know we I think it works we are going to guinea 
  pig the the VC API and the dating Integrity folks through it over 
  the next week uh and then report back uh to to folks again I you 
  know anyway we we have the capability uh if folks want to take it 
  it is up to the chairs and the community to have the discussion 
  on the direction we want to go that's it.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Thank you Mano uh I will note that I have 
  seen and I know from you and from other people on the ccg mailing 
  list some push back on this idea right on the idea of moving to a 
  centralized provider and.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  When we talked about this as the chairs we 
  want to make sure that this is a thing that is as easy as 
  possible for as many people as possible with the idea that we 
  want to make it more inclusive and open and.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  And fine for not great for everybody to use 
  right and we hear you on the centralization aspects and we do not 
  intend to do this by Fiat or anything like that alright this is 
  going to be a conversation with the broader community and if 
  anybody feels 1 way or the other please make yourself heard 
  please make it clear where you stand and hopefully we could uh 
  make the you know transition or not but we are hoping to make a 
  decision hopefully soon um we uh please go ahead Kim.
Geun-Hyung Kim:  Yeah um so I love I love that you guys are uh in 
  gals are revisiting the um sort of like to 0.1 I like that you're 
  making it easier to get involved and then also the things about 
  these sort of obscure philosophical debates that probably people 
  jump in on and don't get to hear so I love that you're rethinking 
  everything and I think that's what this community needs um also 
  support making this more inclusive um you know easier to join I 
  think um also lean towards menu preferences of open tools open 
  platforms but I I think the main thing is um yeah whatever is 
  maintainable for the current shares the 1 thing that I I think 
  Manu mentioned it and he mentioned it in the email but like as 
  someone who used to maintain the um the various meeting minute 
  public.
Geun-Hyung Kim:  In the sort of Rube Goldberg of um you know 
  tracking participants and all that other stuff you need to sort 
  of.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: :+1:
Geun-Hyung Kim:  Make sure clean IPR happens um I think that can 
  be a non-trivial amount of work doing that transition even so 
  just wanted to make sure people think through that and you know 
  identify someone on the hook um yeah.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Absolutely Kim um thank you for that.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  I will know we have 3 minutes left and what 
  I would like to do next week is for us to go through these 
  separate ideas and ask people for input on maybe debate ideas or 
  how they want to do the format or anything like that um do we 
  like the breakout rooms how often do we want to do them the 
  educational series if anybody has any ideas tips of or anything 
  like that or anyone wants to volunteer.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  And obviously the migration to a different 
  tool um we'll start with the migration to the next week so we can 
  talk about and have everybody's ideas aired out and hopefully we 
  will get to the other items afterwards does anybody have anything 
  else they would like to bring up about any of these ideas.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:   Or does.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Anyone have any.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  I'd like to share and we can talk about 
  next.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Thank you everyone for your time and we'll 
  talk next week.
