[2021-08-03T16:01:22.225Z]	<Adrian_Gropper>	present+
[2021-08-03T16:01:22.226Z]	<mprorock>	present+
[2021-08-03T16:01:26.394Z]	<Mahmoud>	present+
[2021-08-03T16:01:26.668Z]	<Charles_E._Lehner>	present+
[2021-08-03T16:01:28.242Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	present+
[2021-08-03T16:01:36.618Z]	<Joe_Andrieu>	present+
[2021-08-03T16:02:01.741Z]	<Dmitri_Z>	present+
[2021-08-03T16:02:12.485Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	present+
[2021-08-03T16:02:56.457Z]	<by_caballero>	present+
[2021-08-03T16:03:03.560Z]	<Chris_Kelly_(DIF)>	present+
[2021-08-03T16:03:54.968Z]	<TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com)>	present+
[2021-08-03T16:04:08.427Z]	<TallTed>	present+
[2021-08-03T16:05:05.026Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	present+
[2021-08-03T16:05:09.935Z]	<David_Lehn>	present+
[2021-08-03T16:05:51.663Z]	<Orie>	present+
[2021-08-03T16:06:13.230Z]	<Orie>	I can scribe
[2021-08-03T16:06:13.622Z]	<by_caballero>	/me can't this week sorry!
[2021-08-03T16:06:18.773Z]	<Wayne_Chang> scribe+ Orie
[2021-08-03T16:06:33.106Z]	<Orie>	Scribe: Orie
[2021-08-03T16:06:35.156Z]	<Wayne_Chang> Agenda: https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-credentials/2021Aug/0011.html
[2021-08-03T16:06:52.835Z]	<Orie>	Topic: Introductions
[2021-08-03T16:07:07.081Z]	<Orie>	wayne: anyone want to introduce themselves?
[2021-08-03T16:07:30.608Z]	<by_caballero>	audio problems?
[2021-08-03T16:07:31.176Z]	<Orie>	... chris?
[2021-08-03T16:08:12.002Z]	<mprorock>	awesome to have you on!
[2021-08-03T16:08:12.459Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	Welcome to the group, Chris! :)
[2021-08-03T16:08:32.705Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	q+
[2021-08-03T16:08:33.101Z]	<Orie>	chris: I just started at DIF, working coms
[2021-08-03T16:08:36.795Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	ack Manu
[2021-08-03T16:08:41.769Z]	<Orie>	Topic: Announcements
[2021-08-03T16:08:46.383Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	present+
[2021-08-03T16:08:54.348Z]	<Orie>	manu: see the mailing list, the DID spec is now a proposed rec.
[2021-08-03T16:08:59.071Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	W3C DID v1.0 is Proposed Rec: https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-credentials/2021Aug/0030.html
[2021-08-03T16:09:03.752Z]	<JeffO-StL>	present+
[2021-08-03T16:09:20.518Z]	<Orie>	... this means the WG is done... this is v1.0... next voting happens
[2021-08-03T16:09:43.128Z]	<Geun-Hyung>	present+
[2021-08-03T16:09:46.050Z]	<Orie>	... likely to become a standard, important for you to have your AC rep vote.
[2021-08-03T16:10:01.454Z]	<Orie>	... voting open till end of the month
[2021-08-03T16:10:20.925Z]	<Orie>	... there will be a press release, we're looking for large production deployments of DIDs
[2021-08-03T16:10:32.166Z]	<Orie>	... looking for quotes regarding DIDs and their use
[2021-08-03T16:10:47.827Z]	<Orie>	... september timeframe for the press releasee
[2021-08-03T16:11:06.116Z]	<FN57794e70efbcf8ddcb3098a1ab160271>	present+
[2021-08-03T16:11:12.364Z]	<Orie>	wayne: thanks, as you know this work started here in the CCG, congrats all
[2021-08-03T16:11:22.732Z]	<by_caballero>	+1
[2021-08-03T16:11:26.435Z]	<Geun-Hyung>	present+
[2021-08-03T16:11:28.426Z]	<Orie>	... also note that the authors list was data driven
[2021-08-03T16:11:36.009Z]	<by_caballero>	a much appreciated extra mile
[2021-08-03T16:11:55.512Z]	<smagennis>	present+
[2021-08-03T16:11:58.190Z]	<Orie>	wayne: other announcements?
[2021-08-03T16:12:03.110Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	q?
[2021-08-03T16:12:05.289Z]	<Balazs>	present+
[2021-08-03T16:12:17.975Z]	<by_caballero>	business model upcoming
[2021-08-03T16:12:22.354Z]	<Orie>	wayne: IIW is having special sessions, tickets are available
[2021-08-03T16:12:23.880Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	q?
[2021-08-03T16:12:25.000Z]	<by_caballero>	one-day UX miniconf was last week
[2021-08-03T16:12:46.609Z]	<Orie>	Topic: Action Items
[2021-08-03T16:13:01.207Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/community/issues/203
[2021-08-03T16:13:10.976Z]	<mprorock>	q+
[2021-08-03T16:13:17.814Z]	<Orie>	wayne: heather can you introduce this?
[2021-08-03T16:14:04.660Z]	<Orie>	<confusion over review status>
[2021-08-03T16:14:07.117Z]	<Anil_John>	present+
[2021-08-03T16:14:12.583Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	ack mprorock
[2021-08-03T16:14:14.576Z]	<Orie>	heather: someone has these, not sure who
[2021-08-03T16:14:23.887Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	q+
[2021-08-03T16:14:33.537Z]	<Orie>	mike: I see 203... i've got that one
[2021-08-03T16:14:58.661Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	ack Heather
[2021-08-03T16:15:07.188Z]	<Orie>	heather: is the infra task force not managing this?
[2021-08-03T16:15:20.323Z]	<Orie>	wayne: ... maybe
[2021-08-03T16:15:32.671Z]	<Anil_John>	present+
[2021-08-03T16:15:45.461Z]	<Orie>	wayne: mike, go ahead
[2021-08-03T16:15:45.605Z]	<Brent>	present+
[2021-08-03T16:16:27.241Z]	<Orie>	mike: quick recap... my goals, etc... we need to incubate things that can become open standards... I want to see...
[2021-08-03T16:16:46.902Z]	<Orie>	... 1. creating an environment where we can incubate and abopt standards.
[2021-08-03T16:17:02.749Z]	<Orie>	... 2. invite new stakeholders, and make our work more approachable
[2021-08-03T16:17:21.420Z]	<Orie>	... 3. emphasize testability and interoperability demonstration
[2021-08-03T16:17:28.424Z]	<Kim>	present+
[2021-08-03T16:18:01.351Z]	<Orie>	... demonstrating potential commercial impact, addressing concerns for personal privacy, right to repair... providing open alternatives to proprietary specs, promoting a public good.
[2021-08-03T16:18:15.641Z]	<Orie>	... some stuff takes forever to make progress...
[2021-08-03T16:18:26.004Z]	<Orie>	... but we all need testable interoperability...
[2021-08-03T16:18:47.397Z]	<manu>	q+ to share some thoughts on what Mike shared... agree, and worry about what if we don't do some work.
[2021-08-03T16:19:10.553Z]	<Orie>	... also considering, increased attention from external parties, government sides but also enterprise side
[2021-08-03T16:19:15.568Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	Re: Updates -  there is the launch of the Learning and Employment Record Network of the T3 Innovation Network (US Chamber of Commerce Fdn) next week - see  and look for the LERN . There is, like in W3C, a sign up (no cost/obligation). The kickoff meeting is itself is planned for 8/11/2021 at 2 pm EDT (1hr).  Connection details fill follow shortly.
https://www.t3networkhub.org/
[2021-08-03T16:19:30.001Z]	<Orie>	... folks want to have interoperability
[2021-08-03T16:19:48.574Z]	<Orie>	... we need to continue to make things more professional, and explain things better
[2021-08-03T16:20:05.796Z]	<Orie>	... supporting both technical and nontechnical contributors
[2021-08-03T16:20:16.253Z]	<Orie>	... and audiences
[2021-08-03T16:20:23.342Z]	<Orie>	... provide a "landing ground" for DIDs and VCs
[2021-08-03T16:20:41.083Z]	<Orie>	... explaing both tech and business implications
[2021-08-03T16:21:08.637Z]	<Dmitri_Z>	present+
[2021-08-03T16:21:09.947Z]	<Orie>	... other item, how can we look at cross pollination of ideas, for example education, supply chain, ssi, etc...
[2021-08-03T16:21:18.853Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	+1 for cross pollination to leverage multiple communities
[2021-08-03T16:21:20.059Z]	<Orie>	... glad to see all the DIF folks here
[2021-08-03T16:21:26.302Z]	<by_caballero>	ðŸ’ª
[2021-08-03T16:21:36.158Z]	<Orie>	... also good to see SOLID community here as well
[2021-08-03T16:21:47.503Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	ack manu
[2021-08-03T16:21:53.173Z]	<Orie>	... thats my ramble, any questions?
[2021-08-03T16:22:09.631Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	q+
[2021-08-03T16:22:12.850Z]	<Orie>	manu: thanks, +1 to all that.... I wanted to speak to some specifics
[2021-08-03T16:22:27.372Z]	<Orie>	... on your first point, I think we are ding that one ok...
[2021-08-03T16:22:39.897Z]	<Kim>	Fantastic non-ramble Mike!
[2021-08-03T16:22:42.822Z]	<Orie>	... +1 to inviting new stakeholders
[2021-08-03T16:22:50.594Z]	<Kayode_Ezike>	present+
[2021-08-03T16:22:55.731Z]	<Orie>	... I have a concern, for each of these points
[2021-08-03T16:23:23.179Z]	<Orie>	... for example, invite new stakeholders... as some of you know, DHS requested feedback on mDL...
[2021-08-03T16:23:44.566Z]	<Orie>	... there are other communities saying folks should look at VCs for mDL...
[2021-08-03T16:23:59.623Z]	<Orie>	... but we don't have good contact with those communities ...
[2021-08-03T16:24:13.046Z]	<Orie>	... these are concrete communities that we can pull in and engage with...
[2021-08-03T16:24:43.831Z]	<Orie>	... regarding test suites.... we should keep trying
[2021-08-03T16:24:58.509Z]	<Orie>	... how do we "productionize vocab and test suites"
[2021-08-03T16:25:27.126Z]	<Orie>	... there are some things we are not watching closesly enough...
[2021-08-03T16:25:42.511Z]	<econnell>	present+
[2021-08-03T16:25:49.498Z]	<Orie>	... there is less engagement on LD Security, but that work needs to be done...
[2021-08-03T16:25:55.296Z]	<econnell>	present+
[2021-08-03T16:26:12.605Z]	<Orie>	... we need to make sure we don't put that cart before the horse wrt dependencies
[2021-08-03T16:26:31.407Z]	<Orie>	... there are things on fire that need to be tended too, right now
[2021-08-03T16:26:37.095Z]	<Orie>	q?
[2021-08-03T16:26:55.954Z]	<Orie>	mike: prioritization is important...
[2021-08-03T16:27:09.419Z]	<Anil_John>	@Manu VaxCerts work and "did not work out as expected" << Maybe ... Personally am a believer in "Last Person Standing" and not "First Mover Advantage" when it comes to certain things ... :-)
[2021-08-03T16:27:11.061Z]	<Orie>	... the issues you raised are related...
[2021-08-03T16:27:52.110Z]	<Orie>	... we need fundamentals, in order to support the higher layers
[2021-08-03T16:28:01.355Z]	<Orie>	... its easy to get burned out in this environement
[2021-08-03T16:28:20.924Z]	<Dmitri_Z>	present+
[2021-08-03T16:28:29.041Z]	<Orie>	... lets try harder
[2021-08-03T16:28:36.068Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	ack Phil
[2021-08-03T16:28:47.291Z]	<Orie>	Phil_L_(P1): I want to +1 all that
[2021-08-03T16:29:11.872Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	@Anil -- Well, let's just say it certainly didn't change the short-term direction of the big vendors working on SMART Health Cards. :) -- but yes, this is a long game, that point is taken.
[2021-08-03T16:29:20.571Z]	<Orie>	... the <...> record, is looking at the space of business and education
[2021-08-03T16:29:38.383Z]	<Orie>	... we don't need another set of meetings... how can we align this new initiative?
[2021-08-03T16:30:03.847Z]	<Orie>	... VHR standards group is looking at Resume's and VCs...
[2021-08-03T16:30:20.614Z]	<Orie>	... thats an opp, they are just getting their head around JSON-LD
[2021-08-03T16:30:43.551Z]	<Orie>	... manu is right, there are fires... there are standards being proposed about alternatives to VCs
[2021-08-03T16:30:51.503Z]	<Orie>	...  need to help in form decision making
[2021-08-03T16:31:09.552Z]	<Orie>	... LERN network is looking forward to working together on this
[2021-08-03T16:31:24.208Z]	<Orie>	... there is an interest in analytics
[2021-08-03T16:31:35.701Z]	<Orie>	... and privacy preserving usage statistics
[2021-08-03T16:32:09.165Z]	<Orie>	mike: any links to these items are welcome
[2021-08-03T16:32:21.205Z]	<Orie>	... please continue to raise issues, or ping me directly
[2021-08-03T16:32:31.320Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	q?
[2021-08-03T16:32:37.178Z]	<manu>	q+ on standards as competitors to VCs ... and tooling.
[2021-08-03T16:32:41.084Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	ack manu
[2021-08-03T16:32:55.119Z]	<Kaliya>	present+
[2021-08-03T16:32:55.419Z]	<Orie>	manu: what are the things we are not doing well?
[2021-08-03T16:33:06.115Z]	<Orie>	... we are not good at doing tooling well... it sucks
[2021-08-03T16:33:14.841Z]	<Kim>	present+
[2021-08-03T16:33:15.442Z]	<Orie>	q+
[2021-08-03T16:33:33.702Z]	<Orie>	... we have a tooling deficit that makes developing tooling difficult
[2021-08-03T16:34:02.316Z]	<Orie>	... JWTs are so easy, to use, its hard to tell people to do harder things...
[2021-08-03T16:34:15.364Z]	<Orie>	... it takes investment to make tooling easier
[2021-08-03T16:34:37.357Z]	<mprorock>	quick note - i think i stated 101 meeting as this afternoon,  that should be corrected to next week, aug 10
[2021-08-03T16:35:07.957Z]	<Orie>	... the other thing, sometimes we hear about how VCs are being attempted to be included, but then large vendors objecting to them, and forcing their removal.
[2021-08-03T16:35:10.266Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	https://www.t3networkhub.org/  for information about the LERN and related T3 Innovation Networks (Jobs and Workforce Data Network,  Open Competency and Frameworks Network, Data and Technology Standards Network)
[2021-08-03T16:35:25.972Z]	<Orie>	... it happened in a closed door standards setting body
[2021-08-03T16:35:32.159Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	Historical info on the LER work at http://lerhub.org
[2021-08-03T16:35:48.599Z]	<Orie>	... some people view this communities work as a threat, and are actively hostile to open standards
[2021-08-03T16:35:52.928Z]	<Orie>	... how do we address that?
[2021-08-03T16:36:11.442Z]	<Orie>	... these fires can turn into existential threats
[2021-08-03T16:36:16.173Z]	<manu>	scribe+
[2021-08-03T16:36:20.710Z]	<Orie>	mike: I am also concerned by this
[2021-08-03T16:36:45.747Z]	<Orie>	... I agree tooling is a part of this
[2021-08-03T16:36:59.083Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	q?
[2021-08-03T16:37:04.715Z]	<Orie>	... this is why cross polination is important
[2021-08-03T16:37:16.503Z]	<Orie>	... some groups are better at tooling than others
[2021-08-03T16:37:26.790Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	ack Orie
[2021-08-03T16:37:38.912Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	thank you to manu for scribe assist
[2021-08-03T16:37:50.276Z]	<manu>	Orie: I queued because I was triggered by what Manu said -- no tooling to generate JSON-LD Contexts...
[2021-08-03T16:38:31.427Z]	<manu>	... there is a tool in Traceability that generates JSON-LD Context for Traceability vocab, generate vocab from same thing... schema document is empty and build from JSON Schema, we also make sure you can issue VCs from that.
[2021-08-03T16:38:46.099Z]	<by_caballero>	/me realizes he's months overdue on a documentation PR for that tooling
[2021-08-03T16:38:47.121Z]	<by_caballero>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/154
[2021-08-03T16:39:13.673Z]	<by_caballero>	(thanks to mike for the documentation that DOES exist in the meantime)
[2021-08-03T16:39:14.208Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	q?
[2021-08-03T16:39:16.211Z]	<manu>	... so, on every merge to main, every vocab element is still valid and still producing valid credentials. There are tooling issues out there, but one of the important things out there, small focused groups with clear objective and clear scope defined... if you don't have that, you can have a lot of debate on scope and not a lot of improvement on tooling/tests.
[2021-08-03T16:40:14.057Z]	<manu>	Orie: Classic example is VC HTTP API, not heavy focus on tooling, big group, not focus on tooling/implementation, don't bundle tooling debate on open standards debate... maybe split work items to smaller groups to tech savvy to tech groups, business folks to business discussions, separation of concerns is important when working on these things.
[2021-08-03T16:40:20.944Z]	<Orie>	mike: +1 to all that
[2021-08-03T16:40:53.317Z]	<Orie>	wayne: there is a curse of knowledge, but we don't document things well enough for folks to understand...
[2021-08-03T16:41:07.367Z]	<Orie>	... CCG 101 is important for addressing that
[2021-08-03T16:41:19.138Z]	<Orie>	... this leads to "what is an appropriate work item"
[2021-08-03T16:41:46.067Z]	<Orie>	... how can we make sure work items are serving the appropriate audiences?
[2021-08-03T16:42:10.034Z]	<Orie>	... sometimes implementers have needs that don't reflect WG consensus
[2021-08-03T16:42:56.064Z]	<Orie>	... regarding the VC-HTTP-API, sometimes there is exploratory work, that conveys instability and distracts from fundamental stability
[2021-08-03T16:43:12.967Z]	<Orie>	... do we allow DID Methods?
[2021-08-03T16:43:35.281Z]	<Orie>	... do we have criteria for evaluating work items?
[2021-08-03T16:43:41.737Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	q?
[2021-08-03T16:43:41.908Z]	<manu>	q+ to try and summarize the work item types we have right now.
[2021-08-03T16:43:50.302Z]	<Orie>	... do all work items need to support all audiences?
[2021-08-03T16:43:55.506Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	ack manu
[2021-08-03T16:45:04.033Z]	<Orie>	manu: looking at what we have done in the past, we have worked on standards here... the other thing we seem to work on, are vocabularies... vax, trace, edu, permanent resident cards, etc...
[2021-08-03T16:45:19.191Z]	<Orie>	... and then there are guides, but then its hard for me to categorize things
[2021-08-03T16:45:32.606Z]	<Orie>	... there are people working on did methods here...
[2021-08-03T16:45:39.946Z]	<Orie>	... policy papers?
[2021-08-03T16:46:02.062Z]	<Orie>	q+
[2021-08-03T16:46:10.469Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	ack Orie
[2021-08-03T16:46:11.360Z]	<Orie>	... are there other classes of item?
[2021-08-03T16:46:55.127Z]	<mprorock>	+1 test suites - implicit, but should be called out - especially test suites that are based on standard test approaches
[2021-08-03T16:47:09.646Z]	<manu>	Orie: Test suites are the primary work item that wasn't mentioned, I agree with what you mentioned, Manu... if I were to prioritize -- 1) things that are standards track, 2) vocabularies that are standards track items, 3) test suites... everything else is below the top 3, below the work listed but important.
[2021-08-03T16:48:58.002Z]	<manu>	Orie: The CCG is inherently biased, some of the work we've tried to do to fix the bias, has had a negative impact... standards-track work items good to have non-technical folks engaged... test suites don't need non-technical folks engaged, it's a negative sort of input. Working on both things are valuable, but when you mix technical and non-technical discussion, it's bad... what audiences is a work item targeted at, how are audiences being managed? Chairs
[2021-08-03T16:48:58.082Z]	<manu>	should be managing audiences -- with test suites, really important that they demonstrate interop, but are harmed by non-technical input.
[2021-08-03T16:49:53.505Z]	<Dmitri_Z>	present+
[2021-08-03T16:50:09.567Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	q?
[2021-08-03T16:50:10.218Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	q+
[2021-08-03T16:50:11.489Z]	<manu>	Orie: Speaking for Traceability folks, we have two work items that manage that difference... one is vocabulary oriented, and one is test oriented. It's helpful because we get great focused engagement from folks that are relevant. Separation of concerns is critical, we can't have an unbounded classes of items... without clear definition around them, I'd object to working on them.
[2021-08-03T16:50:12.911Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	ack Phil
[2021-08-03T16:50:18.557Z]	<mprorock>	q+
[2021-08-03T16:50:39.180Z]	<Orie>	Phil_L_(P1): regarding Manu's comment...
[2021-08-03T16:50:59.299Z]	<Orie>	... test suites are important, but test suites require continued tending
[2021-08-03T16:51:37.058Z]	<Orie>	...they require continued management, and contribution... we need to think beyond creation, towards maintence
[2021-08-03T16:51:52.336Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	ack mprorock
[2021-08-03T16:52:02.737Z]	<Orie>	mike: I echo what orie siad
[2021-08-03T16:52:15.758Z]	<Orie>	... test suits have an ongoing engaugement
[2021-08-03T16:52:22.073Z]	<Orie>	... things take effort
[2021-08-03T16:52:34.136Z]	<Kaliya>	for test suites and work around interoperability - there is the Interoperability Working group at DIF (myself Snore, and David Waite are the chairs)
[2021-08-03T16:52:40.240Z]	<Orie>	... we need to make sure our test suites are built on "industry standards"
[2021-08-03T16:52:40.885Z]	<by_caballero>	^^
[2021-08-03T16:53:07.865Z]	<by_caballero>	+1 to Kaliya, great place to work on test suites or just recruit contributors/reviewers to test suites happening here
[2021-08-03T16:53:08.239Z]	<Orie>	... one of the key things manu asked, was policy and response side?
[2021-08-03T16:53:10.238Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	q+
[2021-08-03T16:53:29.363Z]	<Orie>	... what is the desire to make statements regarding policy decisions?
[2021-08-03T16:53:53.154Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	+1 Kaliya - another example of the need for collaboration and avoid duplicative efforts.
[2021-08-03T16:53:58.057Z]	<Orie>	... can we build consensus at all?
[2021-08-03T16:54:17.213Z]	<Orie>	... i'm loath to attempt to repond, if we don't have consensus.
[2021-08-03T16:54:19.924Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	ack Heather
[2021-08-03T16:55:00.519Z]	<Orie>	heather: this community is traditional technical, which is a liability if its a narrow way of looking at things.
[2021-08-03T16:55:15.940Z]	<Orie>	... what I heard from Orie sounded "gate-keepy"
[2021-08-03T16:55:38.369Z]	<Orie>	... this community is already "gate-keepy"
[2021-08-03T16:56:06.108Z]	<Orie>	... how can we stay open to diversity of views, backgrounds and experiences, while executing and having deliverables...
[2021-08-03T16:56:42.217Z]	<Orie>	... curious how we can have both sides addressed?
[2021-08-03T16:56:49.887Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	ack Kim
[2021-08-03T16:56:59.414Z]	<mprorock>	q+
[2021-08-03T16:57:20.815Z]	<Orie>	Kim: test suites are one of the most important things
[2021-08-03T16:57:42.269Z]	<Orie>	... the avoid dilution of the standards... they support the standards... +1 to all that
[2021-08-03T16:57:43.648Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	ack mpro
[2021-08-03T16:57:45.202Z]	<manu>	I agree with heather's we need to find the right balance.
[2021-08-03T16:57:53.170Z]	<manu>	+100 to what Kim just said... test suites prevent standards dilution.
[2021-08-03T16:58:05.277Z]	<Orie>	mike: I think there is a lot gate-keeping
[2021-08-03T16:58:08.294Z]	<Kaliya>	if we had functional working THINGS
[2021-08-03T16:58:12.840Z]	<Kaliya>	that helps adoption.
[2021-08-03T16:58:20.221Z]	<Kaliya>	and we need more progress so adoption is easy.
[2021-08-03T16:58:29.774Z]	<Orie>	... separating and focusing has addressed this well... its a balance
[2021-08-03T16:58:44.528Z]	<Orie>	... we still run meetings off meeting and workflow tools
[2021-08-03T16:59:05.335Z]	<Orie>	... tooling impacts contribution
[2021-08-03T16:59:06.388Z]	<Kaliya>	I can barely file an issue (in fact I don't know that i ever have).
[2021-08-03T16:59:14.966Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	q?
[2021-08-03T16:59:15.067Z]	<Orie>	... some folks can't use github
[2021-08-03T16:59:20.635Z]	<manu>	We might just want to make community positions, one at a atime, and refer to them when these sorts of inputs come in.
[2021-08-03T16:59:21.322Z]	<manu>	q+
[2021-08-03T16:59:23.581Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	ack manu
[2021-08-03T16:59:40.564Z]	<Orie>	manu: +1 to what heather said, we need to take all forms on input
[2021-08-03T16:59:48.386Z]	<Orie>	... we have core principles
[2021-08-03T16:59:50.145Z]	<mprorock>	+1 kaliya - especially of note, as a lot of times your input is some of the best that we actually need to pay attention to ;)
[2021-08-03T17:00:09.232Z]	<Orie>	... maybe we can externalize our core principles?
[2021-08-03T17:00:35.869Z]	<mprorock>	+1 manu - might be painful to standardize a bit - but this is a key thing
