[Tue 11:04:00] <manu>	scribe: bsletten
[Tue 11:04:08] <manu>	Agenda: https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-webpayments-ig/2016Mar/0043.html
[Tue 11:04:11] <voip-vctf>	John Tibbetts [SIP/sip2sip.info-0000096a] has joined the conference.
[Tue 11:04:12] <voip-vctf>	BillDeL [SIP/sip2sip.info-0000096b] has joined the conference.
[Tue 11:04:35] <voip-vctf>	John Tibbetts [SIP/sip2sip.info-0000096d] has joined the conference.
[Tue 11:04:38] <voip-vctf>	John Tibbetts [SIP/sip2sip.info-0000096a] has left the conference.
[Tue 11:04:45] *	dlongley JohnTib: strange ... several people having trouble connecting today, brian got in after several tries with the same problem, so perhaps try a few more times
[Tue 11:04:58] <bsletten>	Manu: Same agenda as last week. We need to discuss the Draft Charter and Use Case documents. We need to discuss if we are going to hand out a card next week and if we are ready to go.
[Tue 11:05:02] <voip-vctf>	John Tibbetts [SIP/sip2sip.info-0000096d] has left the conference.
[Tue 11:05:03] <voip-vctf>	John Tibbetts [SIP/sip2sip.info-0000096f] has joined the conference.
[Tue 11:05:06] <voip-vctf>	1Restricted [SIP/69.71.222.196-0000096e] has joined the conference.
[Tue 11:05:21] <mediaprophet>	I just dialed in
[Tue 11:05:23] <bsletten>	Manu: We need to make some decisions about names. (Issuer, Curator, etc.) The end of the call is going to be a bike shedding exercise.
[Tue 11:05:29] <voip-vctf>	John Tibbetts [SIP/sip2sip.info-0000096f] has left the conference.
[Tue 11:05:35] <manu>	Topic: Draft Charter Proposal
[Tue 11:05:43] <manu>	http://w3c.github.io/webpayments-ig/VCTF/charter/vcwg-draft.html
[Tue 11:05:46] <voip-vctf>	John Tibbetts [SIP/sip2sip.info-00000970] has joined the conference.
[Tue 11:05:52] <JohnTib>	now I'm in
[Tue 11:05:56] *	dlongley yay
[Tue 11:06:23] <bsletten>	Manu: We have had a really healthy amount of review. Thank you for everyone who did a review. We still have comments streaming in. The hope is to keep editing the editor's draft but we need to send it out at 3PM today.
[Tue 11:06:27] <ShaneM>	(3PM Eastern)
[Tue 11:06:56] <bsletten>	Manu: The Advisory Committee will do an initial review.
[Tue 11:08:02] *	ShaneM confesses he has not read it in a week
[Tue 11:08:09] <bsletten>	Manu: There have been some deep questions asked about the draft charter proposal, but are there any other questions and comments? How do people feel about the draft charter proposal? Is it ready to circulate for informal review?
[Tue 11:08:18] <JohnTib>	Good to go as far as I'm concerned
[Tue 11:08:20] <dlongley>	+1 for ready for informal review
[Tue 11:08:25] <bsletten>	Manu: A lot has changed in the last week.
[Tue 11:08:27] *	ottonomy confesses he hasn't followed the long thread on the mailing list, but general thumbs up.
[Tue 11:08:36] *	dlongley would like some of the comments that have come in added
[Tue 11:08:46] <manu>	http://w3c.github.io/webpayments-ig/VCTF/charter/vcwg-draft.html
[Tue 11:08:48] <ShaneM>	I am not afraid to circulate it for informal review.  But thank you for making LOTS of changes in response to people.
[Tue 11:08:49] <bsletten>	Manu: Let me be more clear about what has changed.
[Tue 11:09:11] <bsletten>	Manu: The Problem Statement hasn't been changed much, mostly editorial. Matt Stone had asked us to tie the problem statement to the goals. That has been done.
[Tue 11:09:55] <bsletten>	Manu: What we do now is take each bullet from the problem statement and say this is a goal. This is what we are trying to address.
[Tue 11:10:19] <bsletten>	Manu: We can't too much in the Problem Statement without upsetting people who have already signed off on it.
[Tue 11:10:57] <voip-vctf>	Carla Casilli [SIP/sip2sip.info-00000971] has joined the conference.
[Tue 11:11:04] <bsletten>	Manu: The Goal section can be modified as we see fit. The Deliverables follow the goals for at least the first stage.
[Tue 11:11:23] <bsletten>	Manu: The Security/Privacy section has been updated to flow more easily. The Internationalization section has been added.
[Tue 11:11:38] *	CarlaCasilli (~CarlaCasilli@public.cloak) has joined #vctf
[Tue 11:11:49] <ottonomy>	+1 on 4.1 deliverables
[Tue 11:11:52] <bsletten>	Manu: Deliverables (4.1): previously we had only planned to deliver data model but now it says we are producing a core vocabulary as well.
[Tue 11:14:08] <bsletten>	Tim: Do we vote on proposed changes in the Community Group?
[Tue 11:14:33] *	dlongley yes, brian, that was Tim Holborn
[Tue 11:15:44] <dlongley>	Manu: The documents are under control of the Web Payments IG, but if the VCTF says we have consensus to add X, I think that would carry a lot of weight.
[Tue 11:17:21] <dlongley>	q+ to say I think we're covered on that by saying we are working on core vocabs
[Tue 11:17:21] <voip-vctf>	dlongley has been added to the queue: dlongley
[Tue 11:17:24] <bsletten>	Tim: There are some privacy and data access rights that were originally discussed but may have been dropped. I don't want the timeline to prevent things that should be in from being excluded.
[Tue 11:17:25] <voip-vctf>	Shane McCarron [SIP/callcentric.com-00000963] has left the conference.
[Tue 11:17:52] <manu>	ack dlongley 
[Tue 11:17:52] <voip-vctf>	dlongley has the floor (to say I think we're covered on that by saying we are working on core vocabs).
[Tue 11:17:59] *	ShaneM is coming back - low tech crap
[Tue 11:18:09] <voip-vctf>	Shane McCarron [SIP/callcentric.com-00000972] has joined the conference.
[Tue 11:18:19] <bsletten>	Dlongley: We have sections on covering security and privacy. We should be able to cover those things in a WG.
[Tue 11:18:43] <bsletten>	Manu: Our window for updating the document is end of May. That's when we expect to have all comments in and have the document updated.
[Tue 11:18:57] <dlongley>	"The design of any data model and format should guard against the unwanted leakage of such data." + a deliverable of core vocabs = we are covered
[Tue 11:19:16] <bsletten>	Manu: If the comments drop off by the end of April, we can decide we can go forward. You still have four weeks.
[Tue 11:19:40] <ShaneM>	there is also a couple of use cases that explicitly require the ability to only disclose the attributes that are needed for a transaction.
[Tue 11:19:43] <bsletten>	Manu: Any other comments on the charter? Anything that is missing that clearly needs to be put in there?
[Tue 11:19:51] *	dezell congratulates the group on this work.
[Tue 11:20:01] <dezell>	q?
[Tue 11:20:01] <voip-vctf>	The speaker queue is empty.
[Tue 11:20:05] <dezell>	q+
[Tue 11:20:05] <voip-vctf>	dezell has been added to the queue: dezell
[Tue 11:20:07] <ShaneM>	But I agree that there is potential for leakage / unintentional disclosure of traceable information.
[Tue 11:20:26] <dlongley>	also: "From a privacy perspective it is important that information that is intended to remain private is handled appropriately."
[Tue 11:21:46] <manu>	Topic: Use Cases Document
[Tue 11:22:04] *	erkorb_rm (~eric.korb@public.cloak) has joined #vctf
[Tue 11:22:13] <bsletten>	ShaneM: We got some feedback on the document. It was all reasonable editorial stuff. We got a set of questions from Ian that I attempted to address.
[Tue 11:22:15] <ShaneM>	https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-webpayments-ig/2016Mar/0012.html
[Tue 11:22:27] <manu>	use cases are here: http://w3c.github.io/webpayments-ig/VCTF/use-cases/
[Tue 11:23:01] <bsletten>	ShaneM: He pointed out some wording issues and inconsistencies. He also asked a question about a fundamental of a tenet of the requirements that we put forth in the Use Cases. I wanted to touch on it here to see if I have the right understanding.
[Tue 11:24:24] <burn>	q+ on transformability of claims
[Tue 11:24:24] <voip-vctf>	burn has been added to the queue: dezell, burn
[Tue 11:24:39] <manu>	ack dezell 
[Tue 11:24:39] <voip-vctf>	dezell has the floor.
[Tue 11:24:51] <bsletten>	ShaneM: [Reads from the Jane alcohol purchase use case] Ian: "This seems hard to handle in general. How do you allow people to ask questions that allow people to ask arbitrary questions about arbitrary attributes."
[Tue 11:25:02] <ottonomy>	We cannot expose only certain attributes of a claim without invalidating the signature
[Tue 11:25:22] <manu>	That's not necessarily true, ottonomy - but we don't want to use the tech that allows for that, imho.
[Tue 11:25:42] <ottonomy>	Ok, granted. :)
[Tue 11:25:47] <bsletten>	ShaneM: I don't think this is a Use Case issue, but do we want to allow individual attributes to be asked for and how does that impact the signature/verifiability of the claims?
[Tue 11:26:06] <manu>	Camenisch-Lysyanskaya Signature
[Tue 11:26:26] <bsletten>	Manu: A claim could be a individual statement, but there are some other technologies like CL Signatures that allow this.
[Tue 11:26:33] *	burn are we using the IRC queue?
[Tue 11:26:37] <manu>	s/Manu: A Claim/Dave Longley/
[Tue 11:26:38] <bsletten>	Holborn: Yes. We want this.
[Tue 11:26:44] *	manu burn yes
[Tue 11:26:48] *	manu but people are jumping queue
[Tue 11:26:53] <mediaprophet>	Tim Holborn...
[Tue 11:27:19] <ShaneM>	q?
[Tue 11:27:19] <voip-vctf>	The current speaker queue is: burn
[Tue 11:27:22] <manu>	ack burn
[Tue 11:27:22] <voip-vctf>	burn has the floor (on transformability of claims).
[Tue 11:27:44] *	Rebecca has quit ("Page closed")
[Tue 11:28:07] <dlongley>	q+ to say the use case does not imply transformation (+1 burn)
[Tue 11:28:07] <voip-vctf>	dlongley has been added to the queue: dlongley
[Tue 11:28:24] <ottonomy>	I also assumed for this liquor store use case, the claim they have in hand is a plain "over 21" claim, not a specific birthdate claim.
[Tue 11:28:37] <bsletten>	burn: While we may want requirements about transformability of claims which is separate from composability. I always thought they would get a claim of being over a specific age. We can discuss transformability separately.
[Tue 11:28:37] <mediaprophet>	+1
[Tue 11:28:39] <manu>	ack dlehn 
[Tue 11:28:39] <voip-vctf>	dlehn isn't on the speaker queue.
[Tue 11:28:41] <manu>	ack dlongley 
[Tue 11:28:41] <voip-vctf>	dlongley has the floor (to say the use case does not imply transformation (+1 burn)).
[Tue 11:28:44] <manu>	q?
[Tue 11:28:44] <voip-vctf>	The speaker queue is empty.
[Tue 11:28:56] <ShaneM>	+1 it was intentionally ambiguous
[Tue 11:29:25] <CarlaCasilli>	are we talking about a claim that someone is of legal age or that someone is of a certain age? Because driver's licenses actually reveal true age. (May or may not be worth discussing here.)
[Tue 11:29:38] <manu>	CarlaCasilli, we're talking about both :)
[Tue 11:29:42] <bsletten>	dlongley: I liked that that UC was intentionally ambiguous. I didn't think transformability was required. I thought that it could be able to comply with a certain regulation without revealing extra information. How it is done isn't as important that a specific claim can be made.
[Tue 11:29:43] <ShaneM>	q+ to note that this could be done lots of ways.  I didn't mean to debate the details today.  Just confirm the requirement.
[Tue 11:29:43] <voip-vctf>	ShaneM has been added to the queue: ShaneM
[Tue 11:29:49] <manu>	ack ShaneM 
[Tue 11:29:49] <voip-vctf>	ShaneM has the floor (to note that this could be done lots of ways.  I didn't mean to debate the details today.  Just confirm the requirement.).
[Tue 11:29:53] <manu>	q+ to note that we should align use cases w/ goals/problem statement. That's part of the review that hasn't happened yet.
[Tue 11:29:53] <voip-vctf>	manu has been added to the queue: manu
[Tue 11:30:06] <burn>	my point was that the use case does not necessarily mandate transformability, which Ian seemed to have assumed
[Tue 11:30:15] <manu>	Agreed, Dan.
[Tue 11:30:16] <dlongley>	+1 burn
[Tue 11:30:18] <bsletten>	ShaneM: I don't think we should debate the details of the technology today. It was intentionally ambiguous. I just wanted to confirm the requirement. Sounds like it was a strong 'YES'.
[Tue 11:30:25] <burn>	but it sounds like we want transformability anyway :)
[Tue 11:30:26] <ottonomy>	Can you clarify the question about what the requirement that you feel is a "very strong yes?"
[Tue 11:30:51] <dlongley>	+1 Shane, it's a requirement, Ian just assumed a bit too much about the potential capability for providing for that requirement
[Tue 11:30:52] *	manu sorry ottonomy - didn't understand the question...
[Tue 11:31:00] <manu>	q?
[Tue 11:31:00] <voip-vctf>	The current speaker queue is: manu
[Tue 11:31:02] <ottonomy>	Sorry: What is the requirement at hand?
[Tue 11:31:10] <bsletten>	ShaneM: I am open to changes to the document. We want to keep it tight on the health care, education and financial verticals so we have examples for each of them. I got a nice UC from JohnTib that I have inserted.
[Tue 11:31:15] <burn>	I should have said transformability/subsettability
[Tue 11:31:39] <manu>	Do we require transformability? Or composability? Or subsettability? or all three? <--- ottonomy
[Tue 11:31:42] <dlongley>	+1 transformability/subsettability is cool ... not sure it's a requirement though ... it's hard.
[Tue 11:31:50] <manu>	yes, very hard to do
[Tue 11:31:51] <dlongley>	*very hard*
[Tue 11:32:03] <bsletten>	ShaneM: I think we're in a pretty good space here. I am open for additional documents on this document. I want to focus on the other document, the vision document, the extended use case document.
[Tue 11:32:05] <dlongley>	(to do in a nice, extensible way)
[Tue 11:32:24] <ottonomy>	If the requirement we're talking about is "recipients should be able to transform claims to display only attributes of those claims they want to share", I think this is not a good requirement to address.
[Tue 11:32:25] <burn>	Composability was very clearly in the extended use cases, but not necessarily transformability or subsettability
[Tue 11:32:31] <bsletten>	ShaneM: We want to make sure that nothing that happens in the initial phase precludes the vision.
[Tue 11:32:34] <manu>	and fraught with minefield of accidentally exposing PII or accidentally providing linkability.
[Tue 11:32:40] <manu>	q?
[Tue 11:32:41] <ShaneM>	ottonomy: 4.3.3
[Tue 11:32:41] <voip-vctf>	The current speaker queue is: manu
[Tue 11:32:43] <manu>	ack manu
[Tue 11:32:45] <voip-vctf>	manu has the floor (to note that we should align use cases w/ goals/problem statement. That's part of the review that hasn't happened yet.).
[Tue 11:32:45] <dlongley>	it's easier to do with boolean attributes -- but there are a lot of size/processing time constraints regardless w/the current tech.
[Tue 11:33:33] <bsletten>	Manu: One thing that I don't think we have done yet with the UC document is map the use cases that map back to the goals and problem statement. Someone needs to do a review.
[Tue 11:33:35] <stone>	transforming a claim to another claim may also produce a claim that mis-represents the intention and scope of the original verifiable claim
[Tue 11:33:37] <voip-vctf>	Shane McCarron [SIP/callcentric.com-00000972] has left the conference.
[Tue 11:33:39] <bsletten>	bsletten: I will do that.
[Tue 11:33:47] <ottonomy>	4.3.3 pseudo-anonymity gets my +1, and I'm ok with some ambiguity there, but I do not think we should add a requirement that claims be transformable. Thanks for looking up the section and clarifying that it was the one already in the document.
[Tue 11:34:09] <voip-vctf>	Shane McCarron [SIP/callcentric.com-00000973] has joined the conference.
[Tue 11:34:12] *	Rebecca (~Rebecca@public.cloak) has joined #vctf
[Tue 11:35:38] *	dlongley expiry
[Tue 11:36:16] <bsletten>	Manu: We are talking about a lot of cryptographic things. Each one is a separate topic. Mashing them all together becomes fantastically difficult to do. We've had many debates about pseudoanonymity and unlinkability and they are by far the smallest amount of data. I am very much in the privacy camp, but these problems do not have simple solutions.
[Tue 11:36:24] <ShaneM>	unless the key is stored remotely or is dynamically generated each request and the credential is never actually transmitted.
[Tue 11:36:27] *	dlongley quick expirations also require high-availability
[Tue 11:36:34] *	dlongley always tradeoffs
[Tue 11:36:40] <burn>	FYI, I am not arguing at all for transformability.  I was actually arguing that Ian assumed it when it was not necessary for the specific use case.
[Tue 11:36:59] <bsletten>	Manu: There are always tradeoffs. We want these things to be there, but we should be realistic about what is achievable.
[Tue 11:37:20] *	dlongley it's hard -- i prefer us to put use cases in there and then let a WG figure out how to solve them, not say "transformability" is a hard requirement
[Tue 11:37:31] <dlongley>	i prefer us to put use cases in there and then let a WG figure out how to solve them, not say "transformability" is a hard requirement
[Tue 11:38:07] <burn>	Yes, although personally I would like pseudo-anonymity and unlinkability everywhere, as long as they are possible for the use cases where it is demanded it does not need to be present for all use cases (and is not appropriate for all use cases)
[Tue 11:38:24] <bsletten>	Holborn: I don't want to hijack the conversation but I have done work in this space. There are boundaries where contract law applies (to a product example), but it does need to be supported by technology.
[Tue 11:38:25] <ShaneM>	I agree with Tim.  But because we are talking about standards... even with licensing so what?  Someone else could make their own implementation, not pay a fee, and then exploit.
[Tue 11:38:27] <burn>	+1 dlongley
[Tue 11:38:39] <ottonomy>	Concern on the second scenario on 4.3.3: "He provides a credential that verifies his name and address...He [claim recipient] further marks the disclosure as expiring in 30 days - he does not want his information verifiable after that time." The recipient marking a claim as expiring when forward-sharing a credential that has been signed potentially without that expiration built in. I think this sentence may complicate the pseudo-anonymity use case and
[Tue 11:38:39] <ottonomy>	 make it much harder to implement.
[Tue 11:39:10] <dlongley>	q+ to say when you make things unlinkable you lose value as well, much higher likelihood of fraud
[Tue 11:39:10] <voip-vctf>	dlongley has been added to the queue: dlongley
[Tue 11:39:21] <manu>	ack dlongley 
[Tue 11:39:21] <voip-vctf>	dlongley has the floor (to say when you make things unlinkable you lose value as well, much higher likelihood of fraud).
[Tue 11:39:27] <ShaneM>	+1 to not including transformability as a term.  Atomic claims, or separately signed attributes within an aggregated claim are fine.
[Tue 11:39:37] <bsletten>	Manu: I am just raising this as a reminder that we want to put these in the use cases document, but not have to commit to solving these problems today.
[Tue 11:40:11] *	ShaneM notes 20 minutes left
[Tue 11:41:02] <bsletten>	dlongley: We need to let a WG take a look at this. You can make something unlinkable but this can be exploited for fraud. I think we should put some use cases in there and see what a WG can do to solve it.
[Tue 11:41:53] <bsletten>	Holborn: Another one that seems important is portability (e.g. moving from one back to another). This requires an update mechanism on the URIs which may impact unlinkability.
[Tue 11:42:07] <ShaneM>	I note that there is no use case that represents that
[Tue 11:42:13] <ottonomy>	4.2 revoking claims is about the checking account case Tim mentions.
[Tue 11:42:14] <bsletten>	Manu: We have some support for portability. The second goal addresses this. Does that meet the portability goal?
[Tue 11:42:31] <bsletten>	Holborn: I was trying to address the need to avoid vendor lock-in.
[Tue 11:42:49] <dlongley>	q+
[Tue 11:42:49] <voip-vctf>	dlongley has been added to the queue: dlongley
[Tue 11:43:08] <ShaneM>	q+ to note that there is no requirement / scenario that expresses credential portability
[Tue 11:43:08] <voip-vctf>	ShaneM has been added to the queue: dlongley, ShaneM
[Tue 11:43:10] <manu>	ack dlongley
[Tue 11:43:11] <voip-vctf>	dlongley has the floor.
[Tue 11:43:28] <manu>	ack ShaneM 
[Tue 11:43:28] <voip-vctf>	ShaneM has the floor (to note that there is no requirement / scenario that expresses credential portability).
[Tue 11:43:33] <bsletten>	dlongley: I think we cover vendor lock-in in the problem statement and the ability move verifiable claims from one service provider to another.
[Tue 11:43:42] <bsletten>	ShaneM: It's not covered in the Use Cases.
[Tue 11:43:46] <bsletten>	Manu: We need to put that in there.
[Tue 11:44:10] <dlongley>	+1 let's add a scenario to the use cases for that
[Tue 11:44:25] <bsletten>	Manu: This is good. We found a gap. We need to fill it before we send it out.
[Tue 11:45:00] <ottonomy>	https://docs.google.com/document/d/1GySrTXAYpwa4vDPsGE3BMA42FwIAqAyLGigKuKUTGks/edit# There is a portability entry in this old use cases document
[Tue 11:45:04] <JohnTib>	have to leave early for another meeting. tnx all.
[Tue 11:45:09] <bsletten>	ShaneM: Which section should I put it? There was a management section.
[Tue 11:45:15] <voip-vctf>	John Tibbetts [SIP/sip2sip.info-00000970] has left the conference.
[Tue 11:45:23] <bsletten>	Holborn: International migrations (from one country to another) might work.
[Tue 11:45:24] *	JohnTib has quit ("Textual IRC Client: www.textualapp.com")
[Tue 11:45:40] <ottonomy>	+1 "Managing Claims"
[Tue 11:45:43] <CarlaCasilli>	If we're talking about data ownership, there should be a section that focuses on the credential owner
[Tue 11:46:10] <CarlaCasilli>	holder
[Tue 11:46:21] <CarlaCasilli>	and that would mean subject of credential
[Tue 11:46:32] <CarlaCasilli>	I hear you.
[Tue 11:46:42] <CarlaCasilli>	yep.
[Tue 11:46:55] <bsletten>	Manu: Carla, without Use Cases and text surrounding it, it will be hard to get it in in time. Can you send something to the list?
[Tue 11:47:02] *	jasonweaver has quit (Ping timeout: 180 seconds)
[Tue 11:47:32] <CarlaCasilli>	ShaneM: what's the best way to do this?
[Tue 11:48:07] <dlongley>	no concerns from me
[Tue 11:48:11] <ShaneM>	CarlaCasilli, email to shanehalindrome.com feels safest to me !
[Tue 11:48:13] <burn>	No concerns
[Tue 11:48:25] <CarlaCasilli>	ShaneM: great, will do. thanks.
[Tue 11:48:31] *	bsletten_ (~bsletten@public.cloak) has joined #vctf
[Tue 11:49:10] <manu>	PROPOSAL: Integrate as much feedback as possible before 3pm today and send the editor's draft charter and use cases out for informal review to the interviewees, the survey respondents, and the W3C Advisory Committee.
[Tue 11:49:16] <gkellogg>	+1
[Tue 11:49:17] <bsletten_>	+1
[Tue 11:49:18] <burn>	+1
[Tue 11:49:18] <dlongley>	+1
[Tue 11:49:20] <stone>	+1
[Tue 11:49:21] <CarlaCasilli>	+1
[Tue 11:49:21] <ShaneM>	+1
[Tue 11:49:23] <mediaprophet>	+1
[Tue 11:49:24] <ottonomy>	+1
[Tue 11:49:28] <manu>	+1
[Tue 11:50:00] <Rebecca>	+1
[Tue 11:49:32] <ShaneM>	(I have good content for a portability use case now)
[Tue 11:49:36] <voip-vctf>	Shane McCarron [SIP/callcentric.com-00000973] has left the conference.
[Tue 11:49:38] <manu>	RESOLVED: Integrate as much feedback as possible before 3pm today and send the editor's draft charter and use cases out for informal review to the interviewees, the survey respondents, and the W3C Advisory Committee.
[Tue 11:49:46] *	ShaneM notes that is SOOOO annoyng
[Tue 11:49:55] *	manu can imagine :)
[Tue 11:49:59] <bsletten_>	Manu: Anything else on draft use cases before we move on?
[Tue 11:50:04] <manu>	Topic: Card for AC Meeting
[Tue 11:50:11] *	ShaneM SIP client seems to cancel the call every 15 minutes
[Tue 11:50:12] <voip-vctf>	Shane McCarron [SIP/callcentric.com-00000974] has joined the conference.
[Tue 11:50:42] <bsletten_>	Manu: During the last meeting we asked if we should have a handout. dezell suggested a business card with a link and a QR code requesting people review the draft charter.
[Tue 11:51:07] <ottonomy>	+1 card
[Tue 11:51:10] <burn>	+1 card
[Tue 11:51:14] <mediaprophet>	+1
[Tue 11:51:14] <ShaneM>	I love this idea. work with me on it?  I have a vendor here.
[Tue 11:51:16] <stone>	+1
[Tue 11:51:17] <bsletten_>	Manu: I will make them by Friday and give them to dezell and ShaneM. Any issue with the card?
[Tue 11:51:22] <bsletten_>	+1
[Tue 11:51:23] <CarlaCasilli>	+1 and they make great party favors. ;)
[Tue 11:51:27] <burn>	wish I could be there to see the reaction :)
[Tue 11:51:35] <phofmanntsy>	+1
[Tue 11:51:37] <ShaneM>	want to hand them out at LibreWorld?
[Tue 11:51:42] <stone>	will you mail one to each of us? :)
[Tue 11:51:51] <ShaneM>	lol
[Tue 11:51:58] <ShaneM>	libreplanet I mean
[Tue 11:52:19] <manu>	Topic: Vocabulary changes - Issuer, Curator, Inspector
[Tue 11:52:44] <bsletten_>	Manu: We had a discussion a while ago on terminology. Sounds like folks are happy with Issuer and Holder.
[Tue 11:52:49] <dlongley>	there is also "Subject"
[Tue 11:53:06] <bsletten_>	Manu: There is also "Subject" the thing the claim is about. People seem ok with that.
[Tue 11:53:16] <stone>	so subject and holder may be the same?
[Tue 11:53:29] <bsletten_>	Manu: There are two things we weren't sure about. The entity that stores credentials on behalf of the Holder. We have been calling that the Curator.
[Tue 11:53:30] <dlongley>	usually the same, but not always.
[Tue 11:53:32] <stone>	that was the dog example, right?
[Tue 11:53:33] <ShaneM>	ian did not like the name curator.  btw.
[Tue 11:53:57] *	bsletten has quit (Ping timeout: 180 seconds)
[Tue 11:53:59] <ottonomy>	-1 Curator. I'd prefer "management service", "vault"
[Tue 11:54:10] <CarlaCasilli>	-1 on the term curator.
[Tue 11:54:14] <bsletten_>	Manu: Where the Credential is stored is the Identity Provider which is confusing to the OpenID/SAML community.
[Tue 11:54:28] <CarlaCasilli>	Aggregator
[Tue 11:54:28] <CarlaCasilli>	?
[Tue 11:54:32] <stone>	-1 onl vault +1 on curator
[Tue 11:54:42] <ShaneM>	Claim Store?
[Tue 11:54:45] <ShaneM>	no.
[Tue 11:54:47] *	jasonweaver (~jasonweaver@public.cloak) has joined #vctf
[Tue 11:54:59] <burn>	stone, yes, it was the dog/car example
[Tue 11:55:00] <ShaneM>	-1 to identity provider.  that uses the word identity
[Tue 11:55:04] <ottonomy>	"Curator" has two main definitions. 1 is "keeper" which is pretty accurate, but I think the second definition around "selecting" is stronger in current understanding, and the function of this entity is not selecting. It is just respecting user's selections.
[Tue 11:55:23] <CarlaCasilli>	agreed with ottonomy's point
[Tue 11:55:39] <bsletten_>	Manu: We've talked about vaults, but it's not necessarily a vault. We've talked about curator. We have to have the Curator discussion. The organization that consumes the Credential with have called Credential Consumer. We've discussed Inspector/Acceptor.
[Tue 11:55:46] <ottonomy>	+1 "Inspector" solves some problems with "consumer"/"acceptor"
[Tue 11:55:57] <dlongley>	"Credential Agent" or "Claims Agent" could replace "curator"
[Tue 11:56:06] <bsletten_>	Manu: Two discussions we need to have because we are putting this language in the Use Cases and it gets harder to change.
[Tue 11:56:10] <CarlaCasilli>	Is it possible that there is an inspector and a consumer?
[Tue 11:56:18] <stone>	me too - i'm more "neutral/positive" on curator.  i think the systems that stores claims is more passive than what a curator "does"
[Tue 11:56:22] <ShaneM>	I like requestor too... (instead of consumer).
[Tue 11:56:28] <bsletten_>	Manu: Let's discuss Vault/Identity Store/Curator/Aggregator:
[Tue 11:56:42] <dlongley>	requestor is too ambiguous, could be the subject/future holder "requesting" a claim from an issuer
[Tue 11:56:56] <dlongley>	agent of some sort
[Tue 11:56:59] <dlongley>	for curator.
[Tue 11:57:00] <manu>	choices: identity provider / claim store / curator
[Tue 11:57:04] <ShaneM>	-1 to Identity Provider (easily confused with issuer; has word identity in it)
[Tue 11:57:05] *	dlongley or agent
[Tue 11:57:22] <erkorb_rm>	-1 identity provider
[Tue 11:57:23] <burn>	shane:  -1 requestor since consumer might have been given the claim without requesting it
[Tue 11:57:29] <erkorb_rm>	+1 curator
[Tue 11:57:32] <manu>	choices: identity provider / claim store / curator / agent / manager
[Tue 11:57:34] <burn>	+1 claim store
[Tue 11:57:36] <CarlaCasilli>	+1 manager
[Tue 11:57:39] <ottonomy>	+1 vault, -1 identity provider/store, -1 curator, +1 aggregator, +1 credential agent, +1 credential manager
[Tue 11:57:41] <stone>	-1 identity provider
[Tue 11:57:42] <ShaneM>	burn, good point
[Tue 11:57:55] <erkorb_rm>	-1 agent could be browser
[Tue 11:57:58] <ShaneM>	+1 manager (claim manager)
[Tue 11:58:03] <jasonweaver>	+1 curator
[Tue 11:58:06] <manu>	+1 curator (for me)
[Tue 11:58:06] <ShaneM>	+1 agent (claim agent)
[Tue 11:58:11] <Rebecca>	What about credential provider?
[Tue 11:58:11] <stone>	i like "store" over "manage" or "curate" because the action seems more correct
[Tue 11:58:16] <dlongley>	-1000 identity provider, +meh for claim store, +0 curator, +1 agent, +1 manager
[Tue 11:58:24] <gkellogg>	+1 manager, +1 credential agent, +1 credential manager, +1 claim agent, +1 claim manager
[Tue 11:58:25] <phofmanntsy>	+1 claim store
[Tue 11:58:26] <ottonomy>	erkorb_rm: I feel "credential agent" would be distinct enough from "user agent" (browser)
[Tue 11:58:26] <erkorb_rm>	-1 manager could be a person.
[Tue 11:58:38] <burn>	agree with stone.  storing is exactly what is happening
[Tue 11:58:51] <dlongley>	agree with Shane
[Tue 11:58:58] <CarlaCasilli>	agreed with Shane
[Tue 11:59:07] <dlongley>	also was thinking storage, but know others won't.
[Tue 11:59:14] <stone>	+1 store; +1 curate; -1 manager; -1 agent
[Tue 11:59:23] <mediaprophet>	I've been reviewing http://www.rogerclarke.com/ID/IdModel-1002.html as was highlighted to me this week, but haven't had time to go through it properly
[Tue 11:59:23] <bsletten_>	sletten: Is the spread on reactions indicative of intertwingled ideas?
[Tue 11:59:25] <erkorb_rm>	ottonomy, "agent" could be one's behalf - I'm so,so on that
[Tue 11:59:27] <burn>	hmm, agree that noun usage of store could be a problem
[Tue 11:59:38] <CarlaCasilli>	-1 curator
[Tue 11:59:43] <phofmanntsy>	Hofman: on Wndows its certificate store
[Tue 12:00:05] <burn>	-1 curator, manager, agent
[Tue 12:00:31] <erkorb_rm>	korb likes curator
[Tue 12:00:48] <manu>	choices: manager, curator
[Tue 12:00:51] <mediaprophet>	"Entification. The association of data with a particular entity depends on the acquisition of an entifier such as a phone's IMEI, a processor-id or a human biometric. This process is usefully described as entification."
[Tue 12:00:51] <CarlaCasilli>	curator is an incredibly popular word in the edu world for selecting specific content
[Tue 12:00:52] <ottonomy>	+1 manager
[Tue 12:00:53] <erkorb_rm>	manager could be a person
[Tue 12:00:54] <ShaneM>	+1 manager
[Tue 12:00:57] <gkellogg>	+1 manager
[Tue 12:00:58] <mediaprophet>	+1 curator
[Tue 12:00:59] <erkorb_rm>	+ curator
[Tue 12:01:02] <manu>	+1 curator
[Tue 12:01:04] <CarlaCasilli>	+1 manager
[Tue 12:01:04] <jasonweaver>	+1 curator
[Tue 12:01:05] <phofmanntsy>	+1 manager
[Tue 12:01:09] <stone>	+1 curator
[Tue 12:01:10] <dlongley>	+1 curator, terminology is unique
[Tue 12:01:14] <ShaneM>	manator
[Tue 12:01:19] <bsletten_>	term = Random(Select(manager, curator))
[Tue 12:01:21] <CarlaCasilli>	manator!!!
[Tue 12:01:29] <bsletten_>	+1 Manator
[Tue 12:01:29] *	dezell is unable to make up his mind.
[Tue 12:01:29] <ShaneM>	change my vote ; +1 curator.  it us unique
[Tue 12:01:51] <burn>	synonyms for vault:  bag,	barrel,	basket,	belly,	bin,	bladder,	bottle,	bowl,	box,	bucket,	cabinet,	can, case,	cask,	chest,	closet,	container,	crate,	cup,	cupboard,	decanter,	drawer, drum,	flask,	holder,	jar,	jug,	ladle,	locker,	pocket,	pot,	pouch,	purse, receptacle,	repository,	reservoir,	sack,	shelf,	stomach,	storage,	suitcase,	tank, tray,	trunk,	vat,	wallet.
[Tue 12:01:57] <erkorb_rm>	loop()
[Tue 12:02:09] <Rebecca>	Why is not an "issuer" of the credential?
[Tue 12:02:09] <ShaneM>	claim repository?
[Tue 12:02:16] <burn>	+1 curator if absolutely necessary
[Tue 12:02:25] <bsletten_>	+1 curator
[Tue 12:02:27] <dlongley>	+1 to valuable things idea
[Tue 12:02:37] *	dlongley any other nouns for "storage" that work?
[Tue 12:02:42] <ShaneM>	curator ALSO feels like it could have some intelligence
[Tue 12:02:45] <bsletten_>	sletten: Manager = consensus agent
[Tue 12:02:50] <CarlaCasilli>	but the curation should be on the holder's part, and the credential repository org is not the curator but rather the recipient of the curation
[Tue 12:03:16] <dlongley>	my biggest plus for curator is its uniqueness ... and it could become uniquitous -- as Shane says :)
[Tue 12:03:31] <erkorb_rm>	curator implies management
[Tue 12:03:33] <bsletten_>	brian: Carla, this is why I thought we may have tangled concepts here.
[Tue 12:03:42] <burn>	why not repository?  several irc comments have used exactly that word
[Tue 12:03:47] <CarlaCasilli>	agreed, bsletten_
[Tue 12:04:04] <ottonomy>	Oh, the reason I was -1 on curator was because I would prefer to think of the service I use to store my credential as more of a dumb bucket. Even though I would probably build some intelligence into my bucket when I build one.
[Tue 12:04:17] <CarlaCasilli>	repository = +1
[Tue 12:04:22] <gkellogg>	A curator might dispose of expired credentials (otherwise, whatâ€™s to curate?)
[Tue 12:04:28] <burn>	yes, I wish we had repositor :) (creating a noun from repository)
[Tue 12:04:41] <ShaneM>	Rebecca: check out this diagram http://w3c.github.io/webpayments-ig/VCTF/use-cases/#how-a-verifiable-claim-might-be-created
[Tue 12:04:52] <dlongley>	credential archive ... archivist
[Tue 12:04:52] *	dezell how about "governor"?
[Tue 12:05:03] <dlongley>	credential depot
[Tue 12:05:07] <stone>	-1 governor
[Tue 12:05:07] <ShaneM>	dezell: governor feels like something that slows things down ;-)
[Tue 12:05:34] <stone>	credential bureau
[Tue 12:05:40] <voip-vctf>	Shane McCarron [SIP/callcentric.com-00000974] has left the conference.
[Tue 12:05:41] <manu>	choices: manager, curator, repository
[Tue 12:05:52] <burn>	+1 repository, -1 manager
[Tue 12:05:53] <dlongley>	-1 manager
[Tue 12:05:55] <BillDeL>	+1 curator
[Tue 12:05:56] <ottonomy>	+1 manager, 0 curator, +1 repository
[Tue 12:06:03] <dezell>	+1 curator
[Tue 12:06:04] <manu>	+1 curator, -1 manager, +0 repository
[Tue 12:06:05] <bsletten_>	+1 repository, +1 curator, 0 manager
[Tue 12:06:05] <phofmanntsy>	+repository
[Tue 12:06:07] <stone>	-1 manager; 0 curator; +1 repository
[Tue 12:06:08] <gkellogg>	+1 manager, -1 curator, +1 repository
[Tue 12:06:09] <voip-vctf>	Shane McCarron [SIP/callcentric.com-00000975] has joined the conference.
[Tue 12:06:12] <CarlaCasilli>	+ 1 repository, -1 curator, +1 manager
[Tue 12:06:16] <ShaneM>	+1 repository, -1 manager, 0 curator
[Tue 12:06:19] <dlongley>	+1 curator, +1 repository
[Tue 12:06:19] <erkorb_rm>	+1 curator
[Tue 12:06:23] <mediaprophet>	-1 manager +1 curator
[Tue 12:06:29] *	ShaneM notes this is hysterical
[Tue 12:06:29] <jasonweaver>	-1 manager, +1 curator, +1 repository
[Tue 12:06:41] <stone>	+1 shaneM
[Tue 12:06:49] <dlongley>	i do like the alliteration of "credential curator" :)
[Tue 12:06:56] <mediaprophet>	+1 repository
[Tue 12:06:56] <bsletten_>	sletten: Eventual consistency and consensus protocols in action.
[Tue 12:07:24] <erkorb_rm>	-1
[Tue 12:07:44] <erkorb_rm>	Digital curation is the selection, preservation, maintenance, collection and archiving of digital assets. Digital curation establishes, maintains and adds value to repositories of digital data for present and future use. This is often accomplished by archivists, librarians, scientists, historians, and scholars.
[Tue 12:07:44] <erkorb_rm>	Digital curation - Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
[Tue 12:07:53] <mediaprophet>	how about bank?
[Tue 12:07:55] <mediaprophet>	credential bank
[Tue 12:08:04] <ShaneM>	erkorb_rm: thanks for that.
[Tue 12:08:06] <mediaprophet>	credential account?
[Tue 12:08:09] <stone>	+1 manu comment
[Tue 12:08:39] <erkorb_rm>	+1 Accreditrust see themselves as a "curation curator"
[Tue 12:08:43] <dlongley>	sounds crude ... not sure i'd want to put my credentials in a repository :/
[Tue 12:08:57] <erkorb_rm>	-curation
[Tue 12:09:00] <CarlaCasilli>	thanks!
[Tue 12:09:02] *	dlongley we didn't decide on inspector
[Tue 12:09:04] <dlongley>	did we?
[Tue 12:09:11] <voip-vctf>	Manu Sporny [SIP/6000-0000095a] has left the conference.
[Tue 12:09:11] <ShaneM>	dlongley: no.  but out o time
[Tue 12:09:14] *	dlongley ok
[Tue 12:09:15] <burn>	marketing:  "yes, we are better than a repository,  we are curators" .  Makes perfect sense.
[Tue 12:09:16] <voip-vctf>	Shane McCarron [SIP/callcentric.com-00000975] has left the conference.
[Tue 12:09:16] <voip-vctf>	jasonweaver [SIP/sip2sip.info-00000968] has left the conference.
[Tue 12:09:16] <voip-vctf>	Carla Casilli [SIP/sip2sip.info-00000971] has left the conference.
[Tue 12:09:18] <voip-vctf>	BillDeL [SIP/sip2sip.info-0000096b] has left the conference.
[Tue 12:09:20] <voip-vctf>	Dave Longley [SIP/6002-00000958] has left the conference.
[Tue 12:09:20] *	Colleen has quit ("Page closed")
[Tue 12:09:22] <voip-vctf>	Gregg Kellogg [SIP/10.0.1.39-00000962] has left the conference.
[Tue 12:09:23] <bsletten_>	Manu: No call next week, but we'll meet the following week to discuss how the meeting went.
[Tue 12:09:27] *	BillDeL has quit ("ChatZilla 0.9.92 [Firefox 44.0.2/20160210153822]")
[Tue 12:09:39] *	gkellogg has quit (gkellogg)
[Tue 12:09:39] *	gkellogg_ is now known as gkellogg
[Tue 12:09:45] *	bsletten_ has quit ("Page closed")
[Tue 12:09:46] <ottonomy>	With Concentric Sky hat on, we're fine with repository as a generic term, but we'd add in the "intelligence" as a upsell to our repository option and into its branding.  (btw, /me is Nate Otto, usually use a different nick for this channel)
[Tue 12:09:47] *	jasonweaver has quit ("Page closed")
[Tue 12:09:52] <voip-vctf>	Brian Sletten [SIP/sip2sip.info-00000964] has left the conference.
[Tue 12:09:57] *	mediaprophet has quit ("Page closed")
[Tue 12:09:58] <voip-vctf>	Nate Otto [SIP/sip2sip.info-00000960] has left the conference.
[Tue 12:10:01] <burn>	sorry, my comment sounded snide but wasn't meant to be.  i think this is the right path.
[Tue 12:10:45] *	burn has quit ("Page closed")
[Tue 12:11:16] *	stone has quit (Client closed connection)
[Tue 12:11:31] <manu>	Didn't take your comment as snide, Dan :)

