[Tue 12:07:03] <kimhd>	scribe: heathervescent
[Tue 12:07:03] <kimhd>	date: 2018-12-20
[Tue 12:07:03] <kimhd>	for reintro let's do Nate Otto
[Tue 12:07:24] <manu>	Topic: Introductions and Reintroductions
[Tue 12:07:26] <voip-ccg>	Unknown [SIP/69.65.34.216-0000029e] has joined the conference.
[Tue 12:07:32] <drummond>	voip: 29d is drummond
[Tue 12:07:32] <voip-ccg>	Associated drummond with SIP/69.65.34.216-0000029d.
[Tue 12:07:35] *	manu yaay, welcome back Nate Otto! :)
[Tue 12:07:38] <heathervescent>	Nate Otto: Lead developer for Badger project for Concentric Sky, re-engaging with the group after not being able to for some time, glad to be participating again. I've also been very involved in open badges.
[Tue 12:07:38] <heathervescent>	Topic: Announcements and Status Updates
[Tue 12:07:39] *	dlongley yay, welcome back, Nate!
[Tue 12:07:51] <kimhd>	voip: 287 is ChristianLundkvist
[Tue 12:07:51] <voip-ccg>	Associated ChristianLundkvist with SIP/69.65.34.216-00000287.
[Tue 12:07:57] *	kimhd hi Nate!
[Tue 12:07:57] <ChristopherA>	voip: 029c is ChristopherA
[Tue 12:07:57] <voip-ccg>	Associated ChristopherA with SIP/69.65.34.216-0000029c.
[Tue 12:08:13] <kimhd>	voip: connections?
[Tue 12:08:13] <voip-ccg>	Conference participants are: Kim Hamilton Duffy [SIP/learningmachine.onsip.com-00000286], ChristianLundkvist [SIP/69.65.34.216-00000287], rgrant [SIP/69.65.34.216-00000288], mikexu [SIP/69.65.34.216-00000289], David Lehn [SIP/6003-0000028a], Nate Otto [SIP/badgr.onsip.com-0000028b], Heather Vescent [SIP/66.27.176.106-0000028c], JoeAndrieu [SIP/69.65.34.216-0000028d], Manu Sporny [SIP/6000-0000028f], 16179245273 [SIP/69.65.34.216-0000028e], Dave
[Tue 12:08:13] <voip-ccg>	Longley [SIP/6002-00000290], Chris Webber [SIP/sip.linphone.org-00000292], Ted Thibodeau Jr [SIP/10.0.0.11-00000293], Dan_Burnett [SIP/69.65.34.216-00000294], David Chadwick [SIP/truetrust.onsip.com-00000297], 972545664271 [SIP/69.65.34.216-00000295], 14082420464 [SIP/69.65.34.216-00000296], 19283808156 [SIP/69.65.34.216-00000299], 14153505140 [SIP/69.65.34.216-0000029b], ChristopherA [SIP/69.65.34.216-0000029c], drummond [SIP/69.65.34.216-0000029d],
[Tue 12:08:13] <voip-ccg>	Unknown [SIP/69.65.34.216-0000029e].
[Tue 12:08:19] <rgrant>	someone means to be on mute, but is not
[Tue 12:08:23] <heathervescent>	Announcements: No meeting next 2 weeks. 1st meeting is Jan 9.
[Tue 12:08:24] *	JohnJordan (~JohnJordan@public.cloak) has joined #ccg
[Tue 12:08:27] <sabadello>	voip: 029e is sabadello
[Tue 12:08:27] <voip-ccg>	Associated sabadello with SIP/69.65.34.216-0000029e.
[Tue 12:08:32] *	nage has quit (Client closed connection)
[Tue 12:08:34] <kimhd>	voip: 295 is LionelWolberger
[Tue 12:08:34] <voip-ccg>	Associated LionelWolberger with SIP/69.65.34.216-00000295.
[Tue 12:08:38] *	dlongley if you're not speaking, please go on mute
[Tue 12:08:54] *	nage (~nage@public.cloak) has joined #ccg
[Tue 12:08:54] <heathervescent>	Announcements: Virtual Hackathon coming up
[Tue 12:09:00] *	squarfed (~squarfed@public.cloak) has joined #ccg
[Tue 12:09:32] <voip-ccg>	Unknown [SIP/69.65.34.216-0000029f] has joined the conference.
[Tue 12:09:40] <heathervescent>	Joe A: want to get people to help engage technology partners for Virtual Hackathon
[Tue 12:09:49] <squarfed>	voip: 29f is squarfed
[Tue 12:09:49] <voip-ccg>	Associated squarfed with SIP/69.65.34.216-0000029f.
[Tue 12:09:49] <manu>	Agenda: https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-credentials/2017Dec/0066.html
[Tue 12:10:10] <manu>	q+ to mention registries.
[Tue 12:10:10] <voip-ccg>	manu has been added to the queue: manu
[Tue 12:10:16] *	cwebber wait
[Tue 12:10:23] *	rgrant or queue up...
[Tue 12:10:27] <kimhd>	voip: 299 is ZacharyL
[Tue 12:10:27] <voip-ccg>	Associated ZacharyL with SIP/69.65.34.216-00000299.
[Tue 12:10:44] <cwebber>	q+
[Tue 12:10:44] <voip-ccg>	cwebber has been added to the queue: manu, cwebber
[Tue 12:10:56] <drummond>	I asked for clarification about two of the registries
[Tue 12:11:12] <heathervescent>	Manu: Make decision re: registry to adopt process & 3 registries. Update to Object Capabilities (Chris Webber)
[Tue 12:11:17] <JoeAndrieu>	q?
[Tue 12:11:17] <voip-ccg>	The current speaker queue is: manu, cwebber
[Tue 12:11:22] <JoeAndrieu>	ack manu
[Tue 12:11:22] <voip-ccg>	manu has the floor (to mention registries.).
[Tue 12:11:25] <JoeAndrieu>	ack cwebber
[Tue 12:11:25] <voip-ccg>	cwebber has the floor.
[Tue 12:11:37] <cwebber>	https://w3c-ccg.github.io/ld-ocap/
[Tue 12:12:18] <heathervescent>	cwebber: Object capabilities document in good early shape. Group needs to review & decide to take on as official work. Do we want to vote now?
[Tue 12:12:36] *	kimhd i didn't correctly capture at least 1 id (apologies). Here are the remaining ones I need to id: 617, 408, 415
[Tue 12:13:11] <heathervescent>	ChristopherA: Not yet a formal work item, propose to schedule it to discuss it being a work item in January.
[Tue 12:13:48] <heathervescent>	JoeA: Registries work item? Are we formalizing today?
[Tue 12:14:05] <JoeAndrieu>	q?
[Tue 12:14:05] <voip-ccg>	The speaker queue is empty.
[Tue 12:14:19] <manu>	voip-ccg: 296 is Akila
[Tue 12:14:19] <voip-ccg>	Associated Akila with SIP/69.65.34.216-00000296.
[Tue 12:14:20] <heathervescent>	Kimhd: Drummond had some questions (via email) and wanted to hear more about two items.
[Tue 12:14:50] <ottonomy>	The other two items proposed were "Linked Data Key Types, and Credential Status Method Registries"
[Tue 12:15:42] <drummond>	q+
[Tue 12:15:42] <voip-ccg>	drummond has been added to the queue: drummond
[Tue 12:15:49] <heathervescent>	Manu: Linked Data Key Types, is the registry to resolve DID hardening spec stuff, key type expression, crypto suites, to express cryptography suites/key suites.
[Tue 12:15:52] <JoeAndrieu>	the proposal: https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-credentials/2017Dec/0020.html
[Tue 12:15:57] *	nage has quit (Ping timeout: 180 seconds)
[Tue 12:16:13] <ottonomy>	+1 to the name "Linked Data Key Types" - It's pretty clear to me.
[Tue 12:16:31] <drummond>	That's what I'm on the queue to ask about.
[Tue 12:16:42] *	kimhd thanks Akila!
[Tue 12:17:20] <heathervescent>	Manu: Credential Status Method Registries - w3c tpac, came out of revocation discussion, this is more than revocation, need to back up for all status, revocation is one status. To express different status methods you have with a credential. So far identified: list of credential status items posted somewhere on the web, 2) blockchain based status method (none proposed yet)
[Tue 12:17:23] <JoeAndrieu>	q?
[Tue 12:17:23] <voip-ccg>	The current speaker queue is: drummond
[Tue 12:17:26] <JoeAndrieu>	ack drummond
[Tue 12:17:26] <voip-ccg>	drummond has the floor.
[Tue 12:18:19] <heathervescent>	Drummond: Concerned with calling the registry Linked Data Key Types, that because thought it meant something different.
[Tue 12:18:24] <manu>	q+ to note that we can change the name at any point, and that we may step on toes if we make it "key descriptions" -- namely JOSE/JWK
[Tue 12:18:24] <voip-ccg>	manu has been added to the queue: manu
[Tue 12:18:40] <ottonomy>	These are specific ways of describing keys in linked data, as opposed to keys FOR signing linked Data particularly. Maybe "Linked Data Key Classes"?
[Tue 12:18:40] *	kimhd just checking: proponent, not opponent right?
[Tue 12:18:46] <JoeAndrieu>	ack manu
[Tue 12:18:46] <voip-ccg>	manu has the floor (to note that we can change the name at any point, and that we may step on toes if we make it "key descriptions" -- namely JOSE/JWK).
[Tue 12:19:05] <dlongley>	all kinds of keys -- including how to represent using Linked Data
[Tue 12:19:24] <drummond>	q+
[Tue 12:19:24] <voip-ccg>	drummond has been added to the queue: drummond
[Tue 12:20:12] *	kimhd we do key _curations_
[Tue 12:20:15] <dlongley>	decentralized key management key types?
[Tue 12:20:24] <drummond>	+1 to that
[Tue 12:20:32] <dlongley>	kinda weird -- because they don't *have* to be used in that manner.
[Tue 12:20:48] <dlongley>	but more general.
[Tue 12:20:50] <JoeAndrieu>	q?
[Tue 12:20:50] <voip-ccg>	The current speaker queue is: drummond
[Tue 12:21:11] <heathervescent>	Manu: Registries are unofficial, we can change the name. Committing with the purpose of registry, not the name (name can be changed). Re: Key Descriptions - open hostility to use this terminology from other groups. To generalize outside of linked data, need a different set of specs... we need to talk about JWK/JOSE. This would be a new class of crypto suites. Concern about generalizing too far.
[Tue 12:21:55] <kimhd>	q+ seems like concern is over name, which we can follow up on later (but approve)
[Tue 12:21:55] <voip-ccg>	kimhd has been added to the queue: drummond, kimhd
[Tue 12:21:59] <manu>	I'd be happy w/ Decentralized Key Types? ... don't know about "Management"... 
[Tue 12:21:59] <heathervescent>	JoeA: These are the 4 work items we want to agree to work on.
[Tue 12:22:25] <manu>	3 registries, one process -- 4 work items.
[Tue 12:22:30] <heathervescent>	Drummond: OK, as long as we can discuss the name of the work item.
[Tue 12:22:33] *	kimhd background noise again
[Tue 12:22:38] <heathervescent>	JoeA: reviewing the 4 work items (in the agenda)
[Tue 12:22:58] <kimhd>	+1 to that
[Tue 12:23:00] *	dlongley munch munch
[Tue 12:23:02] *	manu someone is eating chips off-mute again... or granola.
[Tue 12:23:10] *	kimhd yum
[Tue 12:23:11] <drummond>	+1 to approving those four work items
[Tue 12:23:12] *	manu probably breakfast.
[Tue 12:23:21] <manu>	or riding a horse on gravel.
[Tue 12:23:21] <kimhd>	+1 to approving these 4 work items
[Tue 12:23:26] <dlongley>	+1
[Tue 12:23:32] <ChristopherA>	+1
[Tue 12:23:40] *	kimhd is that a trot or a prance?
[Tue 12:23:45] <rgrant>	manu, what is the voip-ccg mute capability?
[Tue 12:23:48] <TallTed>	+1
[Tue 12:23:55] <heathervescent>	+1
[Tue 12:23:59] *	manu rgrant -- voip: mute XYZ
[Tue 12:24:01] *	dlongley voip-ccg: mute <name or ID>
[Tue 12:24:02] <kimhd>	q?
[Tue 12:24:02] <voip-ccg>	The current speaker queue is: drummond, kimhd
[Tue 12:24:28] *	cwebber the cereal chewing group
[Tue 12:24:28] <kimhd>	ack drummond
[Tue 12:24:28] <voip-ccg>	drummond has the floor.
[Tue 12:24:33] <JoeAndrieu>	ack kimhd
[Tue 12:24:33] <voip-ccg>	kimhd has the floor (seems like concern is over name, which we can follow up on later (but approve)).
[Tue 12:24:50] <kimhd>	q-
[Tue 12:24:50] <voip-ccg>	undefined isn't on the speaker queue.
[Tue 12:24:54] <cwebber>	+1
[Tue 12:24:59] <ChristianLundkvist>	+1
[Tue 12:25:00] <manu>	+1 for approving 4 work items.
[Tue 12:25:04] <kimhd>	ack kimhd
[Tue 12:25:04] <voip-ccg>	kimhd isn't on the speaker queue.
[Tue 12:25:06] <ChristopherA>	+1
[Tue 12:25:10] <heathervescent>	JoeA: we have officially approved the 4 work items.
[Tue 12:25:15] <rgrant>	voip-ccg: connections
[Tue 12:25:15] <voip-ccg>	Conference participants are: Kim Hamilton Duffy [SIP/learningmachine.onsip.com-00000286], ChristianLundkvist [SIP/69.65.34.216-00000287], rgrant [SIP/69.65.34.216-00000288], mikexu [SIP/69.65.34.216-00000289], David Lehn [SIP/6003-0000028a], Nate Otto [SIP/badgr.onsip.com-0000028b], Heather Vescent [SIP/66.27.176.106-0000028c], JoeAndrieu [SIP/69.65.34.216-0000028d], Manu Sporny [SIP/6000-0000028f], 16179245273 [SIP/69.65.34.216-0000028e], Dave
[Tue 12:25:15] <voip-ccg>	Longley [SIP/6002-00000290], Chris Webber [SIP/sip.linphone.org-00000292], Ted Thibodeau Jr [SIP/10.0.0.11-00000293], Dan_Burnett [SIP/69.65.34.216-00000294], David Chadwick [SIP/truetrust.onsip.com-00000297], LionelWolberger [SIP/69.65.34.216-00000295], Akila [SIP/69.65.34.216-00000296], ZacharyL [SIP/69.65.34.216-00000299], 14153505140 [SIP/69.65.34.216-0000029b], ChristopherA [SIP/69.65.34.216-0000029c], drummond [SIP/69.65.34.216-0000029d],
[Tue 12:25:15] <voip-ccg>	sabadello [SIP/69.65.34.216-0000029e], squarfed [SIP/69.65.34.216-0000029f].
[Tue 12:25:22] <drummond>	@manu - I like "Decentralized Key Types"
[Tue 12:26:27] <manu>	ACTION: Manu to update CCG website with all 4 work items -- process, 3 registries (and create repos where none exist).
[Tue 12:26:37] *	manu drummond -- ok, I'll rename the registry to that.
[Tue 12:27:08] <manu>	@drummond - Ok, I'll rename the LD Key Types registry to "Decentralized Key Types" ... which makes sense... we assume they have links to other content (like who their owner is, etc.)
[Tue 12:27:20] <JoeAndrieu>	https://docs.google.com/document/d/13fp7V3v1nBuhxTI55Al8KLG2kyxFthBz-Ush-ZL58KA/edit?usp=sharing
[Tue 12:27:36] <JoeAndrieu>	(template for DID spec proposals)
[Tue 12:27:55] <heathervescent>	Drummond: Update on DID Spec. Proceeding. Expect to get it done soon.
[Tue 12:28:38] *	kimhd mute check?
[Tue 12:28:51] *	burn has quit ("Page closed")
[Tue 12:28:52] <ChristianLundkvist>	"Decentralized key types" sounds kind of strange, as if the keys are somehow decentralized.
[Tue 12:29:16] <drummond>	Hmm, good point. Suggestions?
[Tue 12:29:17] <heathervescent>	Lionel: offline checkin with JoeA
[Tue 12:29:20] <JoeAndrieu>	Action: Joe & Lionel to chat about Privacy work
[Tue 12:29:40] *	manu excited about the new check in process.
[Tue 12:29:50] <ChristianLundkvist>	Maybe similar to how we say "DID document" we could say "DID key types" or something like that
[Tue 12:29:51] *	dlongley +1
[Tue 12:30:12] <drummond>	+1 to "DID Key Types"
[Tue 12:30:21] <dlongley>	-1 to DID Key Types... not specific to DIDs
[Tue 12:30:47] <dlongley>	it's for applications to use ... where those keys may be listed in a DID document, or elsewhere.
[Tue 12:31:13] <manu>	q+
[Tue 12:31:13] <voip-ccg>	manu has been added to the queue: manu
[Tue 12:31:13] <drummond>	Hmmm, that's a good point too
[Tue 12:31:28] <heathervescent>	JoeA: 2017 in review. Process - introducing the roadmap concept. Before presenting 2018 roadmap, wanted to do a 2017 in review.
[Tue 12:31:31] <JoeAndrieu>	ack manu
[Tue 12:31:32] <voip-ccg>	manu has the floor.
[Tue 12:31:35] <manu>	CCGs numbers - https://www.w3.org/community/credentials/participants
[Tue 12:31:46] <drummond>	How about "DID Document Key Types"?
[Tue 12:32:38] <dlongley>	you can put them in things other than DID Documents, so i don't think that captures it or is too narrow
[Tue 12:33:39] <dlongley>	maybe we need to through in 'suite' somewhere and just shorten it up
[Tue 12:33:47] <heathervescent>	Manu: Community Group numbers: flattened out, not many new members. Doing well on engagement. But haven't done a great job recruiting new people in the group. Have we hit capacity? Exhausted communities already involved? E.g. Lots of people from Consensys. Working group has picked up a few new people, but need more. Question for next year: what new venues should we go to evangelize and engage people from those areas?
[Tue 12:33:59] <dlongley>	or 'key classes' or something.
[Tue 12:34:31] <heathervescent>	Topic: 2017 Year in Review
[Tue 12:34:31] <heathervescent>	JoeA: 123 non chair participants. Transitioned from 2 community groups as VC became a working group.
[Tue 12:34:32] <ChristianLundkvist>	Just "key types" seems to capture it, but did that clash with JOSE?
[Tue 12:34:47] <manu>	+1 hooray for new leadership and the pace at which we're progressing!
[Tue 12:35:30] <drummond>	Yes, +1 to that.
[Tue 12:35:51] <dlongley>	ChristianLundkvist: maybe -- key descriptions/key descriptors does clash ... "type" may be too general and cause a clash, so doing "class" or something like that may help make it clear that we're defining very specific bundled parameters.
[Tue 12:36:02] <drummond>	I agree with Joe that the growth in the number of DID methods is a major sign of momentum.
[Tue 12:36:03] <heathervescent>	JoeA: Successes: Adoption of DID draft spec. Number of DID methods created by 3rd parties. Have 6 DID methods in process/proposed from group members.
[Tue 12:37:01] *	burn (~burn@public.cloak) has joined #ccg
[Tue 12:37:05] <JoeAndrieu>	q?
[Tue 12:37:06] <voip-ccg>	The speaker queue is empty.
[Tue 12:37:30] <manu>	q+ to note that we should start figuring out how to ensure that when folks say they have a DID spec, or are Self-Sovereign... they really are... seeing more ICOs saying they're self sovereign from people that have never participated.
[Tue 12:37:30] <voip-ccg>	manu has been added to the queue: manu
[Tue 12:37:40] *	manu heathervescent Longley is talking
[Tue 12:38:09] <drummond>	+10 to ICO FUD problem
[Tue 12:38:21] <heathervescent>	dlongley: details on success
[Tue 12:38:27] <drummond>	Or better put, the "ICO hijacking" of SSI
[Tue 12:38:38] <kimhd>	Plus several RSA Signature Suite 2017 implementations!
[Tue 12:39:15] <manu>	@drummond - yeah, this group needs to figure out how to deal w/ that...
[Tue 12:40:18] <heathervescent>	JoeA: Amira is incoming.
[Tue 12:40:29] <JoeAndrieu>	q?
[Tue 12:40:29] <voip-ccg>	The current speaker queue is: manu
[Tue 12:40:33] <JoeAndrieu>	ack manu
[Tue 12:40:33] <voip-ccg>	manu has the floor (to note that we should start figuring out how to ensure that when folks say they have a DID spec, or are Self-Sovereign... they really are... seeing more ICOs saying they're self sovereign from people that have never participated.).
[Tue 12:40:51] <ChristopherA>	Q+
[Tue 12:40:58] <ChristopherA>	q+
[Tue 12:40:58] <voip-ccg>	ChristopherA has been added to the queue: ChristopherA
[Tue 12:41:46] *	kimhd selfish sovereign
[Tue 12:41:49] <ottonomy>	#openwashing
[Tue 12:41:50] *	dlongley ha
[Tue 12:42:20] <heathervescent>	Manu: Impressed with 2017 progress. Seeing ICOs launching compatible, and they are closed, proprietary environments. As a community need to deal with this. They are damaging our ability to evangelize.
[Tue 12:42:29] <dlongley>	do we need a page where we list compatible technologies?
[Tue 12:42:57] <JoeAndrieu>	q+ to talk about page of compatible technologies
[Tue 12:42:57] <voip-ccg>	JoeAndrieu has been added to the queue: ChristopherA, JoeAndrieu
[Tue 12:43:00] <JoeAndrieu>	q?
[Tue 12:43:00] <voip-ccg>	The current speaker queue is: ChristopherA, JoeAndrieu
[Tue 12:43:06] <manu>	q+ Lionel
[Tue 12:43:06] <voip-ccg>	manu has been added to the queue: ChristopherA, JoeAndrieu, Lionel
[Tue 12:43:09] <JoeAndrieu>	q+ lionel
[Tue 12:43:09] <voip-ccg>	JoeAndrieu has been added to the queue: ChristopherA, JoeAndrieu, Lionel, lionel
[Tue 12:43:14] <manu>	q- Lionel
[Tue 12:43:14] <voip-ccg>	Lionel has been removed from the queue: ChristopherA, JoeAndrieu, lionel
[Tue 12:43:16] <JoeAndrieu>	ack ChristopherA
[Tue 12:43:16] <voip-ccg>	ChristopherA has the floor.
[Tue 12:43:17] <burn>	Could develop certification program. Most industry standards groups do such things.
[Tue 12:43:40] <manu>	@burn, lightweight certification program would be: "Do you pass the test suite"
[Tue 12:43:53] <manu>	not that we have a test suite right now :)
[Tue 12:44:24] <kimhd>	+1 to more hackathons!
[Tue 12:44:59] <squarfed>	+1
[Tue 12:45:03] <heathervescent>	ChristopherA: Appreciative of BTCR hackathon that resulted in bringing code back into the community. We need more working code and trying out new things.
[Tue 12:45:04] <rgrant>	+1
[Tue 12:45:05] <JoeAndrieu>	q?
[Tue 12:45:06] <voip-ccg>	The current speaker queue is: JoeAndrieu, lionel
[Tue 12:45:11] <JoeAndrieu>	ack JoeAndrieu
[Tue 12:45:11] <voip-ccg>	JoeAndrieu has the floor (to talk about page of compatible technologies).
[Tue 12:45:14] <JohnJordan>	unlikely public sector issuers, I would argue the only legitimate issuer of identities would participate in a closed identity ecosystem
[Tue 12:45:34] <heathervescent>	JoeA: Yes, dlongley, we need something about listing other sources. We don't have a use case doc for DIDs.
[Tue 12:45:44] <heathervescent>	ACTION: Chairs to decide if we need a Use Cases document for DIDs?
[Tue 12:45:46] <JoeAndrieu>	ack lionel
[Tue 12:45:46] <voip-ccg>	lionel has the floor.
[Tue 12:46:11] <JohnJordan>	Hence, in Canada, DIACC role to establish a Pan Canadian Trust Framework for Verified Person, Verifiable Org, Verifiable Relationship
[Tue 12:46:11] <sabadello>	q+
[Tue 12:46:11] <voip-ccg>	sabadello has been added to the queue: sabadello
[Tue 12:47:02] <JoeAndrieu>	q?
[Tue 12:47:02] <voip-ccg>	The current speaker queue is: sabadello
[Tue 12:47:04] <heathervescent>	Lionel: 1) Impressive when journalism was interested in fake news/decoy news. Good job. 2) Shepherding streams of selective disclosure and ...(trust?). This is going well with Soverign.
[Tue 12:47:08] <JoeAndrieu>	ack sabadello
[Tue 12:47:08] <voip-ccg>	sabadello has the floor.
[Tue 12:47:27] <agropper>	q+
[Tue 12:47:27] <voip-ccg>	agropper has been added to the queue: agropper
[Tue 12:48:13] <heathervescent>	Markus: Appreciate the separate DID methods. Feedback has been good to not be limited to one specific ledger. Looking forward to contribute to code - resolver and registration.
[Tue 12:48:19] <JoeAndrieu>	ack agropper
[Tue 12:48:19] <voip-ccg>	agropper has the floor.
[Tue 12:48:22] <JoeAndrieu>	q?
[Tue 12:48:22] <voip-ccg>	The speaker queue is empty.
[Tue 12:49:01] <heathervescent>	Adrian: Highlight of 2017: the realization at RWoT how aligned UMA (user managed access) work and DID/credentials work (w3c). Doubling down to extend this in 2018.
[Tue 12:49:29] <heathervescent>	JoeA: Asking for feedback. What went well? What can we improve?
[Tue 12:49:48] <kimhd>	+1 to screensharing
[Tue 12:49:51] <heathervescent>	JoeA: Drummond suggested screensharing.
[Tue 12:49:58] <heathervescent>	ACTION: Chairs to explore screensharing for calls
[Tue 12:50:11] <dlongley>	essentially the extra calls are "task force calls"
[Tue 12:50:23] <dlongley>	"task forces" being common in other W3C groups
[Tue 12:50:24] <JoeAndrieu>	thanks, dlongley for the language
[Tue 12:51:45] <JoeAndrieu>	q?
[Tue 12:51:45] <voip-ccg>	The speaker queue is empty.
[Tue 12:51:49] <manu>	re: screensharing --- please don't lose audio recording capability in the process.
[Tue 12:52:10] <kimhd>	yes
[Tue 12:52:11] *	dlongley yes
[Tue 12:52:39] <manu>	+1 to Rebooting the Web of Trust workshops playing a big part in where things are today
[Tue 12:52:53] <JoeAndrieu>	+1 to RWoT. It's why I'm here at all.
[Tue 12:53:25] <heathervescent>	Lundkvist: credit goes to the RWoT workshops for moving things forward. Thanks to ChristopherA for running those. And Manu's work in W3C.
[Tue 12:53:32] <heathervescent>	+1 RWoT (why I am here too)
[Tue 12:53:34] *	manu s/Manu's work/all of our work in W3C/ :)
[Tue 12:53:36] <sabadello>	+1 to RWoT... and IIW too
[Tue 12:54:11] <manu>	Yep, remember that IIW has been incubating lots of these ideas for years... :)
[Tue 12:54:35] <heathervescent>	JoeA: propose 1st Tuesday of the month: Crypto Tuesday and invite journalists to this meeting.
[Tue 12:54:50] <heathervescent>	q?
[Tue 12:54:50] <voip-ccg>	The speaker queue is empty.
[Tue 12:55:43] <manu>	heathervescent: I love hearing all of the feedback, positive things that have happened - taking work happening here - all behind the scenes stuff, and making it visible to the rest of the world.
[Tue 12:55:44] <ChristopherA>	Iâ€™d too love to see a regular monthly cryptographer / security focus meeting
[Tue 12:56:52] <manu>	heathervescent: I'm doing some work with ChristopherA for RWoT - amplifying information that is happening here to larger audiences... is there opportunity for material here? I translate from complex tech stuff to general public, I can see a way to help contribute to this community - bring more esoteric discussions to a more non-technical / consumer audience.
[Tue 12:57:01] *	kimhd we could definitely benefit from more translation
[Tue 12:57:38] <manu>	heathervescent: but we don't want to derail the work w/ a bunch of journalistic questions - have a space for people to ask questions, but the answers have to be at the level of understanding for them - don't go down the rabbit hole. 
[Tue 12:57:59] <manu>	q?
[Tue 12:57:59] <voip-ccg>	The speaker queue is empty.
[Tue 12:58:31] <ChristopherA>	There is also the question of 90 minute meeting
[Tue 12:58:40] *	manu cries at the prospect.
[Tue 12:58:40] <heathervescent>	Lionel: Picking a theme for the "crypto tuesday" and inviting people interested.
[Tue 12:59:36] *	manu reminds the group that we're already meeting for 120 minutes on Tuesdays :)
[Tue 12:59:39] <heathervescent>	ChristopherA: proposing a 90 minute meeting.
[Tue 12:59:44] <drummond>	+1 to 90 min calls to really get stuff done
[Tue 12:59:48] <burn>	Christopher, this is a great idea.  The VCWG should run 30 minutes later, but that would mean you needed to start an hour later here :)
[Tue 12:59:48] *	dlongley wonders how that changes with a meeting on the same subject that's 60 minutes just prior
[Tue 12:59:57] <JoeAndrieu>	action?
[Tue 12:59:58] *	manu would be fine for "90 minutes for 'getting stuff done'" calls.
[Tue 12:59:58] <heathervescent>	JoeA: we will discuss 90 minute meeting in January.
[Tue 13:00:13] <rgrant>	alternate proposal: longer meetings but fewer of them, preserving minutes spent in meetings.
[Tue 13:00:23] <kimhd>	+1 to @heathervescent's point. Communicating at the level of understanding is critical for explaining subtleties we described earlier, around self-sovereign imposters
[Tue 13:00:55] <manu>	yes, +1 to @heathervescent - we need to communicate this stuff to general public.
[Tue 13:01:03] <heathervescent>	vescent: Exactly kimhd I was thinking of exactly that. To help manage reputation.
[Tue 13:01:26] *	manu likes the "self-sovereign imposters" term...
[Tue 13:01:28] <heathervescent>	JoeA: Asking for help w/ hackathon.
[Tue 13:01:50] *	manu heathervescent Zachary Larson
[Tue 13:01:50] *	kimhd I will set up a 2 hour meeting with you to discuss why 
[Tue 13:01:54] <JoeAndrieu>	action: Zach Larson to reach out re: hackathon
[Tue 13:01:56] *	manu cries.
[Tue 13:02:00] <ChristianLundkvist>	I have to drop off, thanks everyone!
[Tue 13:02:21] <kimhd>	action: Chairs to advertise hackathon
[Tue 13:02:23] <Zachary>	Do we have a link/material on the hackathon that I can share/promote?
[Tue 13:02:29] <JoeAndrieu>	action: Co-chairs need to put together page for hackathon
[Tue 13:02:41] *	cwebber ;)
[Tue 13:02:56] <heathervescent>	Manu: planning on Digital Bazaar being there.
[Tue 13:03:03] <kimhd>	@ZacharyL not yet, but we should soon
[Tue 13:03:05] <kimhd>	q+
[Tue 13:03:05] <voip-ccg>	kimhd has been added to the queue: kimhd
[Tue 13:03:10] <kimhd>	q-
[Tue 13:03:10] <voip-ccg>	kimhd has been removed from the queue:
[Tue 13:03:10] <ottonomy>	Could I get more information on "being there"? Is this an in-person event, online, decentralized?
[Tue 13:03:17] <JoeAndrieu>	action: Manu to figure out Digital Bazaar participants of Hackathon
[Tue 13:03:20] <drummond>	When is the hackathon?
[Tue 13:03:22] <kimhd>	sorry, have to leave
[Tue 13:03:25] *	kimhd has quit ("Page closed")
[Tue 13:03:27] <voip-ccg>	Kim Hamilton Duffy [SIP/learningmachine.onsip.com-00000286] has left the conference.
[Tue 13:03:32] <rgrant>	January
[Tue 13:03:56] <drummond>	thanks - can someone send an email to the list with full info about the hackathon?
[Tue 13:03:59] <dlongley>	week of January 15th, online.
[Tue 13:04:14] <drummond>	Gotta run, thanks to all, bye
[Tue 13:04:19] *	drummond has quit ("Page closed")
[Tue 13:04:28] <heathervescent>	JoeA: Thanks for a great year!
[Tue 13:04:32] <ottonomy>	I'll potentially participate. I have use cases for DIDs!
[Tue 13:04:32] <manu>	Present+ kimhd, rgrant, ottonomy, drummond, dlongley, vescent, sporny, squarfed, lehn, chadwick, tallted, andrieu, mikexu, cwebber, wolberger, akila, zachary, sabadello, lundkvist, burn
