Thanks to Kaliya Young for scribing this week! The minutes
for this week's Credentials CG  telecon are now available:

https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/2021-02-24 

Full text of the discussion follows for W3C archival purposes.
Audio from the meeting is available as well (link provided below).

----------------------------------------------------------------
Credentials CG  Telecon Minutes for 2021-02-24

Agenda:
  https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-credentials/2021Feb/0115.html
Topics:
  1. Introductions & Reintroductions
  2. Progress on Action Items: 
  3. DIDKit
  4. Vocab
Organizer:
  Heather Vescent and Wayne Chang and Kim Hamilton Duffy
Scribe:
  Kaliya Young
Present:
  Ted Thibodeau, Charles E. Lehner, Heather Vescent, Brian Munz, 
  Mike Prorock, Jacksohne, Kaliya Young, Tyler Adams, Dmitri 
  Zagidulin, Wayne Chang, Chris Winczewski, Kayode Ezike, Brian 
  Sletten, Tim Holborn
Audio:
  https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/2021-02-24/audio.ogg

<heathervescent> We will get started in a few moments.
<mprorock> ted is my favorite person for catching minor 
  inaccuracies that stack up in my code
Heather Vescent: Join the CCG: 
  https://www.w3.org/community/credentials/join
Heather Vescent: Scribe selection: 
  https://docs.google.com/document/d/1LkqZ10z7FeV3EgMIQEJ9achEYMzy1d_2S90Q_lQ0y8M/edit#
Kaliya Young is scribing.

Topic: Introductions & Reintroductions

Heather Vescent:  Request for introduction
Tyler Adams:  From learning economy
Kaliya Young:  Now with Covid Credentials Initiative
<tim_bouma_(linux)> my audio is not working
<heathervescent> Were other folks speaking and I was unable to 
  hear them?
<heathervescent> Is Tim speaking?
Tbouma: working with government of Canada, similar to the role 
  that Anil John has in US. Working on user-centric verifiable 
  credentials.
https://thoughtfulbiometrics.org/
Wayne Chang:  Extending nomination period by 2 weeks so we can 
  have more candidates.
Heather Vescent:  Thanks to kim we have streamlined a lot of 
  heavy work and the infrastructure task force.

Topic: Progress on Action Items: 

Heather Vescent: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/community/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3A%22action%3A+review+next%22
Heather Vescent: PR 181: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/community/issues/181
Heather Vescent:  Issue 181 update call last week about issue 170 
  - path forward for updating VC maintainace spec so if you are 
  interested in updates or participating please take a look at this 
  PR
Wayne Chang:  Work item with process for next version of VC spec 
  - fixing types
Heather Vescent: 179: 
  Https://github.com/w3c-ccg/community/issues/179
https://github.com/w3c-ccg/infrastructure
https://github.com/spruceid/didkit

Topic: DIDKit

<tim_bouma_(linux)> I`d like to discuss about vocab

Topic: Vocab

Wayne Chang:  Vocabulary seems to be a popular work item and 
  governments and other entities see it as a neutral entity to work 
  on vocabulary
Mporock: the perspective from first principles on vocab side - 
  ensuring that every common representation of data can be 
  translated back and forth. We need to have JSON schema objects we 
  need type checking - we are working with JSON linked data from a 
  machine learning space - the layer of meaning is very important. 
  it is an improved state.
Mike Prorock:  Registering schema and then build out JSON-LD and 
  then sign a credential.
Mike Prorock:  Helps a developer step through flow of what this 
  looks like as a VC. We have also seen stuff at the beginning - 
  auto generation of API. Use some of the better interaction tools. 
  For us it is really about ontology and when someone says that 
  they have such and such disease - super important.
Mprocock: WHO phytosanitary certs and interop
Mike Prorock:  Systems to systems representation - JSON-LD is 
  good about this with subclasses.
Mike Prorock:  Different needs about cleaning systems.
Mike Prorock:  Difficulties when things hit traction - very hard 
  for people not in community - it is hard to figure out - 
  documentation side is not great. Particular developers with 
  different language expertise. We are going to go over a developer 
  overhall - from first time hit read-me index spec so they can 
  understand.
Mike Prorock:  What do we mean by swagger, JSON-LD etc. Making it 
  more approachable for outside world.
<michael_herman_(trusted_digital_web)> "Clique speak" has been a 
  long term problem
Brian Sletten:  When I came in fresh - and was confused about 
  what is the reason for all this. It is so new in terms of 
  understanding there is not much out there. Why do this and why is 
  it important. If we did work around this to do this. It would be 
  important. Primary challenge. especially with JSON-LD.
Brian Sletten:  In looking up information about what is going 
  wrong there are very few places to go.
Mike Prorock:  Some of the comments about it have not been great. 
  Java or .net - used to working with XML, JSON - how do we explain 
  building this out and why linking them together from an ontology 
  point of view.
Tim Holborn:  A different perspective from a government 
  perspective, we have have a lot of interest in the verifiability 
  aspect - secondary to that interest - interoperability of 
  payload.
Tim Holborn:  I've been working on interoperability with law 
  enforcement systems - trying to standard ized vital statistics 
  system. Hard system to solve.
Tim Holborn:  Government point of view - we have to work with 
  ecosystems that we have treaty obligations with and mDL MTD
Tim Holborn:  How do you validate people are who they are. The 
  second swipe might be vaccine credentails some infrastructures we 
  control over - 1000s of people through or others like long lived 
  documents.
Tim Holborn:  Innovation science is working on.
Tim Holborn:  Concluding project with 7 different use-cases
Tim Holborn:  The interoperability stuff is an intractable 
  problem.
Mike Prorock:  Supply chain traceability supply - it is pretty 
  easy for developers I've got JSON and I want to standardize how 
  to get to JSON-LD? needs to be explained well.
Mike Prorock:  Drop in a JSON object and then move to JSON-LD 
  that is interoperable.
Tim Holborn:  One of vendors is deep into MDL and MTD - 
  extracting things from those digital artifacts - cryptographic 
  derivations - delegated issuers. So it can work.
Wayne Chang:  Can you go into the nuts and bolts a bit. How do 
  you use them?
Mike Prorock:  It starts from JSON schema - these are the things 
  we care about.
Mike Prorock:  Sharing screen - key thing from folder structure 
  standpoint is within docs folder - scehema structure test vectors 
  and  then credentials. Just adding node schema object. Give test 
  fixture - it will go through and properly generate a VC in the 
  example - we need to call out docs how to do it.
Mike Prorock:  Public facing tech side
Michael Herman: topic of vocabulary and schema's a favorite one I 
  have is UBL - are you able to use those public schema's we are 
  using them with GS1 and Schema.org
Looking at UBL in use across Europe - vocab on linked data side.
Oventually related between vocabs - how to remain complaint.
JSON-LD I want to see - what it translates too if I want it to do 
  something else.
Mike Prorock:  There are vocabularies between RDF vocabs.  Lower 
  priority then making sure we can take standardized JSON as 
  starting point.
Wayne Chang:  What about CBOR? XML?
<identitywoman>	mprorock: getting some auto conversation tools 
  xml to json schema - bi-directional orie kind of kicked this off. 
   the notion to json -> JSON-LD and back regardless of what you 
  have.  The other side internally GRPC and protocol buffers. Room 
  for improvement. Look at leveraging VCs at scale. What if 
  exchanging pile of these that is when start to look at other 
  formats in same way in clean way exchanged at scale. Master - how 
  looks in vari[CUT]
