[2021-02-24T18:00:09.122Z]	<TallTed>	present+
[2021-02-24T18:00:51.730Z]	<cel>	present+
[2021-02-24T18:00:53.557Z]	<heathervescent>	We will get started in a few moments.
[2021-02-24T18:01:02.473Z]	<heathervescent>	present+
[2021-02-24T18:01:03.408Z]	<Munz>	present+
[2021-02-24T18:01:09.998Z]	<mprorock>	present+
[2021-02-24T18:01:11.113Z]	<heathervescent>	Agenda: https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-credentials/2021Feb/0115.html
[2021-02-24T18:01:54.944Z]	<Jeff_Stephens>	present+
[2021-02-24T18:02:23.191Z]	<mprorock>	ted is my favorite person for catching minor inaccuracies that stack up in my code
[2021-02-24T18:02:33.353Z]	<Porter_Adams>	present+
[2021-02-24T18:03:18.550Z]	<JacksÃ³n>	present+
[2021-02-24T18:04:27.754Z]	<heathervescent>	Join the CCG: https://www.w3.org/community/credentials/join
[2021-02-24T18:05:02.366Z]	<IdentityWoman>	present+
[2021-02-24T18:07:05.011Z]	<heathervescent>	Scribe selection: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1LkqZ10z7FeV3EgMIQEJ9achEYMzy1d_2S90Q_lQ0y8M/edit#
[2021-02-24T18:07:58.895Z]	<Tim_Bouma_(Linux)>	present+
[2021-02-24T18:09:20.884Z]	<heathervescent>	Scribe: IdentityWoman
[2021-02-24T18:09:50.181Z]	<heathervescent>	Topic: Introductions & Reintroductions
[2021-02-24T18:10:07.774Z]	<IdentityWoman>	Heathervescent: Request for introduction
[2021-02-24T18:10:18.648Z]	<IdentityWoman>	adams: from learning economy
[2021-02-24T18:11:40.398Z]	<IdentityWoman>	identitywoman: now with Covid Credentials Initiative
[2021-02-24T18:11:58.903Z]	<Tim_Bouma_(Linux)>	my audio is not working
[2021-02-24T18:12:49.689Z]	<heathervescent>	Were other folks speaking and I was unable to hear them?
[2021-02-24T18:13:21.270Z]	<heathervescent>	Is Tim speaking?
[2021-02-24T18:13:46.655Z]	<IdentityWoman>	tbouma: working with government of Canada, similar to the role that Anil John has in US. Working on user-centric verifiable credentials.
[2021-02-24T18:14:40.923Z]	<dmitriz>	present+
[2021-02-24T18:15:08.043Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	https://thoughtfulbiometrics.org/
[2021-02-24T18:15:46.640Z]	<IdentityWoman>	wayne: extending nomination period by 2 weeks so we can have more candidates.
[2021-02-24T18:15:57.450Z]	<chriswinc>	present+
[2021-02-24T18:17:25.853Z]	<IdentityWoman>	Heather: thanks to kim we have streamlined a lot of heavy work and the infrastructure task force.
[2021-02-24T18:18:07.238Z]	<heathervescent>	Topic: Progress on Action Items: 
[2021-02-24T18:18:07.266Z]	<heathervescent>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/community/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3A%22action%3A+review+next%22
[2021-02-24T18:18:58.995Z]	<heathervescent>	PR 181: https://github.com/w3c-ccg/community/issues/181
[2021-02-24T18:19:00.991Z]	<IdentityWoman>	heather: Issue 181 update call last week about issue 170 - path forward for updating VC maintainace spec so if you are interested in updates or participating please take a look at this PR
[2021-02-24T18:19:12.130Z]	<heathervescent>	q?
[2021-02-24T18:19:41.552Z]	<IdentityWoman>	Wayne: work item with process for next version of VC spec - fixing types
[2021-02-24T18:20:02.604Z]	<heathervescent>	179: https://github.com/w3c-ccg/community/issues/179
[2021-02-24T18:21:59.288Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/infrastructure
[2021-02-24T18:22:54.885Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	https://github.com/spruceid/didkit
[2021-02-24T18:22:56.825Z]	<heathervescent>	Topic: DIDKit
[2021-02-24T18:25:00.765Z]	<heathervescent>	q?
[2021-02-24T18:25:12.665Z]	<mprorock>	q+ c
[2021-02-24T18:25:32.335Z]	<heathervescent>	ack mprorock
[2021-02-24T18:25:35.984Z]	<kezike>	present+
[2021-02-24T18:29:24.200Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	q+
[2021-02-24T18:29:41.380Z]	<heathervescent>	ack c
[2021-02-24T18:29:46.039Z]	<heathervescent>	ack Wayne_Chang
[2021-02-24T18:29:52.906Z]	<Tim_Bouma_(Linux)>	I`d like to discuss about vocab
[2021-02-24T18:09:50.1Z]	<heathervescent>	Topic: Vocab
[2021-02-24T18:30:24.155Z]	<identitywoman>	Wayne: vocabulary seems to be a popular work item and governments and other entities see it as a neutral entity to work on vocabulary
[2021-02-24T18:31:49.648Z]	<identitywoman>	Mporock: the perspective from first principles on vocab side - ensuring that every common representation of data can be translated back and forth. We need to have JSON schema objects we need type checking - we are working with JSON linked data from a machine learning space - the layer of meaning is very important. it is an improved state.
[2021-02-24T18:32:23.097Z]	<identitywoman>	mprorock: registering schema and then build out JSON-LD and then sign a credential.
[2021-02-24T18:33:25.696Z]	<identitywoman>	mprorock: helps a developer step through flow of what this looks like as a VC. We have also seen stuff at the beginning - auto generation of API. Use some of the better interaction tools. For us it is really about ontology and when someone says that they have such and such disease - super important.
[2021-02-24T18:33:53.026Z]	<identitywoman>	mprocock: WHO phytosanitary certs and interop
[2021-02-24T18:34:01.881Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	q+
[2021-02-24T18:34:28.946Z]	<identitywoman>	mprorock: systems to systems representation - JSON-LD is good about this with subclasses.
[2021-02-24T18:35:19.288Z]	<identitywoman>	mprorock: different needs about cleaning systems.
[2021-02-24T18:36:25.890Z]	<identitywoman>	mprorock: difficulties when things hit traction - very hard for people not in community - it is hard to figure out - documentation side is not great. Particular developers with different language expertise. We are going to go over a developer overhall - from first time hit read-me index spec so they can understand.
[2021-02-24T18:36:45.911Z]	<heathervescent>	q?
[2021-02-24T18:37:16.614Z]	<identitywoman>	mprorock: what do we mean by swagger, JSON-LD etc. Making it more approachable for outside world.
[2021-02-24T18:37:57.670Z]	<Michael_Herman_(Trusted_Digital_Web)>	"Clique speak" has been a long term problem
[2021-02-24T18:38:28.437Z]	<TimBouma>	q+
[2021-02-24T18:38:31.836Z]	<heathervescent>	q?
[2021-02-24T18:38:44.006Z]	<identitywoman>	Brian: when I came in fresh - and was confused about what is the reason for all this. It is so new in terms of understanding there is not much out there. Why do this and why is it important. If we did work around this to do this. It would be important. Primary challenge. especially with JSON-LD.
[2021-02-24T18:39:06.257Z]	<identitywoman>	Brian: in looking up information about what is going wrong there are very few places to go.
[2021-02-24T18:40:18.893Z]	<heathervescent>	q?
[2021-02-24T18:40:23.276Z]	<identitywoman>	MProrock: some of the comments about it have not been great. Java or .net - used to working with XML, JSON - how do we explain building this out and why linking them together from an ontology point of view.
[2021-02-24T18:40:34.532Z]	<heathervescent>	ack Tim_Bouma_(Linux)
[2021-02-24T18:41:06.133Z]	<identitywoman>	Tim: a different perspective from a government perspective, we have have a lot of interest in the verifiability aspect - secondary to that interest - interoperability of payload.
[2021-02-24T18:42:49.031Z]	<identitywoman>	Tim: I've been working on interoperability with law enforcement systems - trying to standard ized vital statistics system. Hard system to solve.
[2021-02-24T18:43:18.092Z]	<identitywoman>	Tim: government point of view - we have to work with ecosystems that we have treaty obligations with and mDL MTD
[2021-02-24T18:44:08.288Z]	<identitywoman>	Tim: how do you validate people are who they are. The second swipe might be vaccine credentails some infrastructures we control over - 1000s of people through or others like long lived documents.
[2021-02-24T18:44:29.743Z]	<identitywoman>	Tim: Innovation science is working on.
[2021-02-24T18:45:25.242Z]	<identitywoman>	Tim: concluding project with 7 different use-cases
[2021-02-24T18:45:52.374Z]	<identitywoman>	Tim: The interoperability stuff is an intractable problem.
[2021-02-24T18:46:33.367Z]	<identitywoman>	Mprorock: supply chain traceability supply - it is pretty easy for developers I've got JSON and I want to standardize how to get to JSON-LD? needs to be explained well.
[2021-02-24T18:46:35.845Z]	<heathervescent>	q?
[2021-02-24T18:47:04.067Z]	<identitywoman>	mprorock: drop in a JSON object and then move to JSON-LD that is interoperable.
[2021-02-24T18:47:37.047Z]	<identitywoman>	Tim: one of vendors is deep into MDL and MTD - extracting things from those digital artifacts - cryptographic derivations - delegated issuers. So it can work.
[2021-02-24T18:48:40.550Z]	<heathervescent>	ack Wayne_Chang
[2021-02-24T18:48:55.305Z]	<identitywoman>	Wayne: can you go into the nuts and bolts a bit. How do you use them?
[2021-02-24T18:48:57.346Z]	<Michael_Herman_(Trusted_Digital_Web)>	q+
[2021-02-24T18:49:16.467Z]	<identitywoman>	mprorock: it starts from JSON schema - these are the things we care about.
[2021-02-24T18:51:05.888Z]	<identitywoman>	mprorock: sharing screen - key thing from folder structure standpoint is within docs folder - scehema structure test vectors and  then credentials. Just adding node schema object. Give test fixture - it will go through and properly generate a VC in the example - we need to call out docs how to do it.
[2021-02-24T18:52:14.954Z]	<heathervescent>	q?
[2021-02-24T18:52:19.288Z]	<identitywoman>	mprorock: public facing tech side
[2021-02-24T18:52:30.340Z]	<heathervescent>	ack TimBouma
[2021-02-24T18:52:46.460Z]	<heathervescent>	ack Michael_Herman
[2021-02-24T18:53:05.771Z]	<identitywoman>	Michael Herman: topic of vocabulary and schema's a favorite one I have is UBL - are you able to use those public schema's we are using them with GS1 and Schema.org
[2021-02-24T18:53:21.249Z]	<identitywoman>	Looking at UBL in use across Europe - vocab on linked data side.
[2021-02-24T18:54:30.243Z]	<identitywoman>	Oventually related between vocabs - how to remain complaint.
[2021-02-24T18:54:34.516Z]	<identitywoman>	JSON-LD I want to see - what it translates too if I want it to do something else.
[2021-02-24T18:55:39.153Z]	<identitywoman>	Mprorock: there are vocabularies between RDF vocabs.  Lower priority then making sure we can take standardized JSON as starting point.
[2021-02-24T18:55:45.152Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	q+
[2021-02-24T18:56:02.968Z]	<heathervescent>	ack Wayne_Chang
[2021-02-24T18:56:17.556Z]	<identitywoman>	Wayne: what about CBOR? XML?
[2021-02-24T18:57:58.928Z]	<identitywoman>	Mprorock: getting some auto conversation tools XML to JSON schema - bi-directional Orie kind of kicked this off.  The notion to JSON -> JSON-LD and back regardless of what you have.  The other side internally GRPC and protocol buffers. Room for improvement. Look at leveraging VCs at scale. What if exchanging pile of these that is when start to look at other formats in same way in clean way exchanged at scale. Master - how looks in vari[CUT]

