[2024-12-17T16:56:20.686Z]	<Harrison_Tang>	present+
[2024-12-17T16:59:28.424Z]	<Lucy_Yang>	present+
[2024-12-17T17:00:03.358Z]	<Will_Abramson>	present+
[2024-12-17T17:00:10.416Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	present+
[2024-12-17T17:00:33.268Z]	<Jennie_M>	present+
[2024-12-17T17:00:37.777Z]	<econnell>	present+
[2024-12-17T17:00:39.548Z]	<Isaac_Henderson>	present+
[2024-12-17T17:00:43.919Z]	<cc>	present+
[2024-12-17T17:01:00.767Z]	<Vanessa>	present+
[2024-12-17T17:01:20.065Z]	<Wendy_Seltzer_(she/her)>	present+
[2024-12-17T17:01:28.118Z]	<Jeff_O_/_HumanOS>	present+
[2024-12-17T17:01:33.180Z]	<Greg_Bernstein>	present+
[2024-12-17T17:01:33.670Z]	<Vanessa>	present+
[2024-12-17T17:01:45.359Z]	<Tim_Bloomfield>	present+
[2024-12-17T17:01:52.346Z]	<Transcriber>	scribe+
[2024-12-17T17:01:52.346Z]	<Transcriber>	Meeting: weekly
[2024-12-17T17:02:06.118Z]	<Transcriber>	Harrison_Tang: All right we're good.
[2024-12-17T17:02:10.603Z]	<Transcriber>	Will_Abramson: Right how everyone Welcome to our final ccg call of the year.
[2024-12-17T17:02:13.142Z]	<Transcriber>	Will_Abramson: Sticking with us uh.
[2024-12-17T17:02:20.120Z]	<Transcriber>	Will_Abramson: So today we've got Isaac uh Isaac Henderson who's joining us to talk about.
[2024-12-17T17:02:29.620Z]	<Transcriber>	Will_Abramson: Ccg work item verifiable issuers and verifiers uh but before that I'm going to hand over to Harrison is gonna.
[2024-12-17T17:02:31.513Z]	<Olvis_E._Gil_RÃ­os>	present+
[2024-12-17T17:02:34.986Z]	<Joe_Andrieu>	present+
[2024-12-17T17:02:38.110Z]	<Transcriber>	Will_Abramson: Tell us the results of the election and we'll find out who is the new ccg chair joining me in Harrison in the new year.
[2024-12-17T17:02:38.503Z]	<Vanessa_Xu>	present+
[2024-12-17T17:02:46.586Z]	<Transcriber>	Will_Abramson: Although before we get both into both of those I'm just going to run through the you know standard pattern for the start of this group.
[2024-12-17T17:03:03.150Z]	<Transcriber>	Will_Abramson: So uh first thing code of ethics and professional conduct uh I think generally we do a really good job of this but you know treat people with respect we want to create a warm friendly collaborative environment in these calls and in the work we do with each other so.
[2024-12-17T17:03:06.657Z]	<Transcriber>	Will_Abramson: Keep that in mind in your interactions.
[2024-12-17T17:03:18.798Z]	<Transcriber>	Will_Abramson: My name is group and Community um next IP note so anyone is welcome to participate in these calls however substantive contributions to any of the ccg work items.
[2024-12-17T17:03:23.043Z]	<Alex_Higuera_(DCC)>	present+
[2024-12-17T17:03:24.603Z]	<Transcriber>	Will_Abramson: Must be made by members with of the ccg with full IPR agreements.
[2024-12-17T17:03:27.690Z]	<TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com)>	present+
[2024-12-17T17:03:33.625Z]	<Transcriber>	Will_Abramson: If you're not sure about this or you want to join and need to be pointed in the right direction just reach out to any of the chairs and we're happy to help you with that.
[2024-12-17T17:03:48.029Z]	<Tim_Bloomfield>	present+
[2024-12-17T17:03:48.689Z]	<Transcriber>	Will_Abramson: Uh just a quick brief about the call so this call will be recorded takes place in jitsi the minutes were made the recordings will be made available after the meeting we use IRC to manage the queue.
[2024-12-17T17:03:56.600Z]	<Transcriber>	Will_Abramson: If you want to get put on the Queue you can type Q Plus into the chat or you can also raise your hand in there to see interface.
[2024-12-17T17:03:58.571Z]	<Kaliya_Identity_Woman>	present+
[2024-12-17T17:04:12.223Z]	<DavidC>	present+
[2024-12-17T17:04:13.199Z]	<Transcriber>	Will_Abramson: Next introductions are reintroductions to anyone new to this call who'd like to say hello to the group or anyone who's not said hi for a while just what's on mute say hello feel welcome.
[2024-12-17T17:04:23.926Z]	<Transcriber>	Will_Abramson:  no worries.
[2024-12-17T17:04:29.746Z]	<Transcriber>	Will_Abramson: Maybe in the New Year we can all say hi to each other again that might be nice um.
[2024-12-17T17:04:36.294Z]	<Transcriber>	Will_Abramson: Okay announcements and reminders if anyone have anything to announce or remind the group about.
[2024-12-17T17:04:36.770Z]	<Transcriber>	Will_Abramson:  uh L.
[2024-12-17T17:04:41.830Z]	<Benjamin_Young>	present+
[2024-12-17T17:05:08.592Z]	<Lucy_Yang>	https://cadmv.webex.com/weblink/register/r6926385d4e4d0348f81c6cf19396f7a5
[2024-12-17T17:05:39.927Z]	<Transcriber>	Lucy_Yang: Thank you well um so I want I have an update about the California um and DMV mdl hackathons so as many of you probably know we um the California DMV partnered with open ID Foundation to co to co-host to uh Community hackathons focusing on um adoptions of mobile drivers lessons particularly California mobile drivers lessons and we did the 2 hack thans and we had really good results and just want we have public briefing upcoming in the new year on January 10th I just shared a link so that is public to everyone so at that um public briefing we will be providing pretty much the public and particularly the stakeholders the relevant stakeholders the um the learnings the outcomes and the next steps we also select some of the use cases that were presented at the um the hackathon to share with you so just want to share it with um with you the link you know you're most welcome to to join especially if you're working on MDF.
[2024-12-17T17:05:40.746Z]	<Transcriber>	Lucy_Yang:  all related.
[2024-12-17T17:05:51.883Z]	<Transcriber>	Will_Abramson: Great thanks Lucy I wonder if it might be worth having you or some other representative come to the ccg in the New Year here we can coordinate offline.
[2024-12-17T17:05:54.674Z]	<Transcriber>	Lucy_Yang: Okay great sounds good thank you.
[2024-12-17T17:05:58.840Z]	<Transcriber>	Will_Abramson: Uh yeah thanks Lucy any other reminders or announcements for the group.
[2024-12-17T17:06:06.433Z]	<Transcriber>	Will_Abramson: Okay not hearing any um.
[2024-12-17T17:06:18.412Z]	<Transcriber>	Will_Abramson: I don't have any progress on ccg work items to share but does anybody else does anybody else been working on any work items and would like to share an update.
[2024-12-17T17:06:32.701Z]	<Transcriber>	Will_Abramson: No okay that's fine uh no worries so uh I'll move into the agenda and the first thing I'm going to hand over to Harrison who's going to talk us through the ccg election for the new co-chair position.
[2024-12-17T17:07:11.695Z]	<Transcriber>	Harrison_Tang: All right thank you thank you well and I just want before I announce the results as well as the uh say big thanks to both Mahmood and Jillian for actually stepping up and uh uh submit their nominations uh know very very glad and very very happy to see people stepping up and then take leadership this is a very very close race but uh at the end they uh there's only 1 culture decision um and uh that we're bowling for this time and then I want to congratulate Mahmood uh for being our next cgg culture.
[2024-12-17T17:07:15.036Z]	<Transcriber>	Harrison_Tang: I will send out an email um.
[2024-12-17T17:07:15.445Z]	<Dmitri_Zagidulin>	present+
[2024-12-17T17:07:31.052Z]	<Transcriber>	Harrison_Tang: All right later today or tomorrow uh to actually to the email mailing list about the election results and then uh the turn of the uh next CGI culture will start in the new year and then uh we will actually.
[2024-12-17T17:07:41.086Z]	<Transcriber>	Harrison_Tang: Not have a meeting next week and next next week uh and I'll send out an email about that as well and then we we we will resume on January 7th.
[2024-12-17T17:07:43.054Z]	<Transcriber>	Harrison_Tang: Thanks a lot.
[2024-12-17T17:07:53.011Z]	<Transcriber>	Will_Abramson: Great thanks Harrison and yeah welcome on to the same mood I look forward to working with you I don't know if you want to say a few words you're welcome too but don't feel pressured to so.
[2024-12-17T17:08:08.562Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud_Alkhraishi: I would love to um I want to say thank you all for the vote of confidence I hope I can live up to it and I'm looking forward to working with all of you to hold up all the wonderful values we've been working on on and holding for the last few years.
[2024-12-17T17:08:12.041Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud_Alkhraishi: Thank you everyone.
[2024-12-17T17:08:22.168Z]	<Transcriber>	Will_Abramson: Great thanks very much and I guess I will say thanks to Kimberly I mean I only got to work with her for a year but she was delightful to work with as a co-chair of this group I think we were all lucky to have her.
[2024-12-17T17:08:23.066Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	present+
[2024-12-17T17:08:29.119Z]	<Transcriber>	Will_Abramson: Okay moving on to the main topic Isaac over to you for um.
[2024-12-17T17:08:31.630Z]	<Transcriber>	Will_Abramson: Your presentation on the.
[2024-12-17T17:08:35.208Z]	<Transcriber>	Will_Abramson: Certifiable issues and verifies list.
[2024-12-17T17:08:46.834Z]	<Stephan_Baur>	present+
[2024-12-17T17:09:05.876Z]	<Joe_Andrieu>	present+
[2024-12-17T17:09:28.988Z]	<James_Chartrand>	present+
[2024-12-17T17:12:07.335Z]	<Rachel_Donahue_(she/they)_-_Digital_Promise>	present+
[2024-12-17T17:17:17.511Z]	<Phil>	present+
[2024-12-17T17:23:29.795Z]	<Transcriber>	Will_Abramson: Great thanks a lot Isaac so jump on the Queue if you have any questions or comments.
[2024-12-17T17:23:30.097Z]	<Transcriber>	Will_Abramson:  like I have a.
[2024-12-17T17:23:33.328Z]	<Transcriber>	Will_Abramson: Quick sort of matter on like where does this uh.
[2024-12-17T17:23:39.820Z]	<Transcriber>	Will_Abramson: Does this work take place currently like how like say I wanted to get involved how would I do that.
[2024-12-17T17:24:22.534Z]	<Transcriber>	Will_Abramson: Great I mean this is amazing I don't know is this like online like you know if someone is asking you oh really interested in that would you point them to someone and be like look here's the details about this task force or group it's just I was looking before the call and I couldn't see anything that might just be me.
[2024-12-17T17:24:36.529Z]	<Transcriber>	Will_Abramson: Great yeah maybe you could send an email out to the group that would be nice.
[2024-12-17T17:24:54.668Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Zagidulin: Thank you so much for the for presenting so I have a couple questions uh 1 is can you show so we've seen an example of what an individual issuers are verifiers service description object looks like.
[2024-12-17T17:25:01.649Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Zagidulin: What does um can you can you show an example of.
[2024-12-17T17:25:16.502Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Zagidulin: The outer list uh so or or or let's walk back actually because I want to understand whether this is list based or API based so I'm a verifier.
[2024-12-17T17:25:19.695Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Zagidulin: Hands over a diploma to me.
[2024-12-17T17:25:38.144Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Zagidulin: Signed by you know example.edu and I go to I go to verify I go to look up the issuer in uh a Viv uh issue of registry what what does that initial request look like.
[2024-12-17T17:25:56.081Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Zagidulin: What is uh the verifiers request to the issuer registry look like so when I when I want to fetch that uh original list of uh known verifiers.
[2024-12-17T17:26:36.460Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Zagidulin: Got it is there a way for the verifier to fetch the list of all of the known okay.
[2024-12-17T17:26:53.429Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Zagidulin: Okay understood and then the second question is a more General 1 sort of just positioning in the ecosystem uh how would you say how would you differentiate or explain the spec um with regards to.
[2024-12-17T17:27:14.618Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Zagidulin: The other 2 or 3 projects that are uh aiming to do uh verified issue and verify our lists such as open ID Federation and diffs um uh credential trust establishments back so where where would you position this spec uh opposite of those 2.
[2024-12-17T17:28:33.044Z]	<Harrison_Tang>	q+
[2024-12-17T17:28:33.310Z]	<Transcriber>	Will_Abramson: Uh sorry David.
[2024-12-17T17:28:39.908Z]	<Transcriber>	Will_Abramson: Oh yeah David you're right.
[2024-12-17T17:28:48.412Z]	<Transcriber>	Will_Abramson: Oh it's on a David if you're talking.
[2024-12-17T17:28:57.359Z]	<DavidC>	looks like you cannot hear me
[2024-12-17T17:28:57.622Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Zagidulin: Yeah we we can't quite hear you.
[2024-12-17T17:29:01.985Z]	<Transcriber>	Will_Abramson: It's like you're muted on the jitsi client if that's.
[2024-12-17T17:29:07.561Z]	<Transcriber>	Will_Abramson: Maybe I'll get to Harrison first when we come back to you David Harrison.
[2024-12-17T17:29:41.052Z]	<Transcriber>	Harrison_Tang: Yeah I my question is that different trust Frameworks have slightly different governance right so the users of this basically are relying are trusting that trust framework so I'm just I'm I I'm just curious like does this back includes like the identify identification around the trust framework like in this case if your time of Gaia X like does it have a URL to go X and then as well as how their governance work and things like that.
[2024-12-17T17:30:56.537Z]	<Transcriber>	Harrison_Tang: Because I I see that the there are attributes around service identifiers like why don't we have include something like trust framework identifiers or things like that what what are the pros and cons of including or not including such an identifier to the trust Frameworks.
[2024-12-17T17:31:42.905Z]	<Transcriber>	Harrison_Tang: Cool thank you thanks.
[2024-12-17T17:31:45.155Z]	<Transcriber>	Will_Abramson: Cool thanks David.
[2024-12-17T17:31:48.114Z]	<Transcriber>	Will_Abramson: Want to try again.
[2024-12-17T17:31:51.103Z]	<Harrison_Tang>	ack harrison
[2024-12-17T17:31:54.455Z]	<Harrison_Tang>	q?
[2024-12-17T17:31:59.173Z]	<Transcriber>	Will_Abramson: Maybe now um.
[2024-12-17T17:32:05.211Z]	<Transcriber>	Will_Abramson: Oh I see off mute David if you.
[2024-12-17T17:32:11.171Z]	<DavidC>	~I am off mute
[2024-12-17T17:32:21.239Z]	<Transcriber>	Will_Abramson: No we still don't have you yeah you are off you on jitsi I don't know maybe it's something to do with your browser client I think it tends to work best with chrome so I don't know.
[2024-12-17T17:32:25.089Z]	<Harrison_Tang>	we cannot hear you.  perhaps you can type in your question
[2024-12-17T17:32:30.909Z]	<DavidC>	its safari
[2024-12-17T17:32:31.123Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Zagidulin: Yeah try try a different browser or maybe type type in the text.
[2024-12-17T17:32:33.225Z]	<Transcriber>	Will_Abramson: Yes we type in your question I'm happy to read it out.
[2024-12-17T17:32:39.863Z]	<Transcriber>	Will_Abramson: Uh Lucy in the meantime still.
[2024-12-17T17:32:39.943Z]	<DavidC>	It was a comment rather than a question
[2024-12-17T17:32:49.712Z]	<Transcriber>	Lucy_Yang: Yeah question to ask I think I want to go back to on the Metro's question earlier about you know open ID Federation the other the other complimentary.
[2024-12-17T17:33:08.436Z]	<DavidC>	To describe the main difference between OID Federation and ETSI
[2024-12-17T17:33:23.220Z]	<Transcriber>	Lucy_Yang: Um like approach and to have um do we have some examples we can show like how you know um the you know the training approach that can actually approach what you know but whatever is being defined like to verify and and issue our list and the your your work is David on how can we Show an example of how that could be complimentary and to you know open ID Federation or others um potentially leveraging Reggie trust I'm saying this because you know we're we're working together.
[2024-12-17T17:33:51.380Z]	<Transcriber>	Lucy_Yang: It it probably be helpful I I you know having worked on on Reit trust project for a few years I understand you know there's like richer metadata but I haven't seen I haven't seen kind of example from you know from open ID Federation I said know many you know many are considering adopting you know using open ID Federation which is you know kind of Natural Evolution from what they're using today so if there's a kind of more concrete example um that we can show be super helpful you know for me as well so that's.
[2024-12-17T17:34:54.087Z]	<Harrison_Tang>	present+
[2024-12-17T17:34:55.868Z]	<Will_Abramson>	present+
[2024-12-17T17:34:58.415Z]	<Alex_Higuera_(DCC)>	present+
[2024-12-17T17:34:58.758Z]	<Transcriber>	scribe+
[2024-12-17T17:34:58.758Z]	<Transcriber>	Meeting: weekly
[2024-12-17T17:35:00.116Z]	<Benjamin_Young>	present+
[2024-12-17T17:35:04.663Z]	<Wendy_Seltzer_(she/her)>	present+
[2024-12-17T17:35:09.722Z]	<Greg_Bernstein>	present+
[2024-12-17T17:35:11.433Z]	<econnell>	present+
[2024-12-17T17:35:11.761Z]	<Lucy_Yang>	present+
[2024-12-17T17:35:16.238Z]	<cc>	present+
[2024-12-17T17:35:20.844Z]	<Jennie_M>	present+
[2024-12-17T17:35:22.648Z]	<Joe_Andrieu>	present+
[2024-12-17T17:35:23.683Z]	<Dmitri_Zagidulin>	present+
[2024-12-17T17:35:24.080Z]	<Phil>	present+
[2024-12-17T17:35:26.043Z]	<James_Chartrand>	present+
[2024-12-17T17:35:28.867Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	present+
[2024-12-17T17:35:35.583Z]	<Olvis_E._Gil_RÃ­os>	present+
[2024-12-17T17:35:36.475Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	present+
[2024-12-17T17:35:40.724Z]	<James_Chartrand>	present+
[2024-12-17T17:36:02.315Z]	<DavidC>	present+
[2024-12-17T17:36:19.777Z]	<Tim_Bloomfield>	present+
[2024-12-17T17:36:23.612Z]	<Kaliya_Identity_Woman>	present+
[2024-12-17T17:36:43.440Z]	<Transcriber>	Will_Abramson: I'm not seeing anyone on the Queue I have some more questions my questions are more about the ccg and like you know like you're 1 of a few people or groups who are doing a CCD work item that kind of in that process I don't think we as a CCU community.
[2024-12-17T17:36:53.939Z]	<Transcriber>	Will_Abramson: Have that process fully refined like I just wonder if you have any comments about how we as a community could help work items like yourselves you know get through the process to like.
[2024-12-17T17:37:20.626Z]	<Transcriber>	Will_Abramson: Um I think the criteria is uh.
[2024-12-17T17:38:01.836Z]	<Transcriber>	Will_Abramson: I might be wrong at this so people can correct me but I think the criteria is you guys tell us that you think it's finished and then we put a call out to this community group and there's open for like you know comments and objections and if and if that passes then it's finished and it can be published as like a a final report with a w3c link but it's still a ccg like a community group report I think for it to get adopted in a working group that would be up to the working group that would form right and then they decide which which work items they might want to bring in to like work on more formally to get them through like a proper w3c standard.
[2024-12-17T17:38:05.536Z]	<Transcriber>	Will_Abramson: So that's separate things basically.
[2024-12-17T17:38:18.639Z]	<Transcriber>	Will_Abramson: To help this group could help you get to a final report right and I think that would be the first step to which ones is the final report then it can be like oh this thing's pretty you know pretty good shape working groups would start considering.
[2024-12-17T17:38:22.157Z]	<Transcriber>	Will_Abramson: Um you know advancing it further I suppose.
[2024-12-17T17:38:55.543Z]	<Transcriber>	Will_Abramson: Yes I mean I think so that's fine to me.
[2024-12-17T17:39:19.089Z]	<Transcriber>	Will_Abramson: Yes um so that's kind of like the the more formal process of the ccg right can help you get a report published but I was more wondering about like.
[2024-12-17T17:39:21.602Z]	<Transcriber>	Will_Abramson: We as a group of people like.
[2024-12-17T17:39:21.870Z]	<Transcriber>	Will_Abramson:  I feel like.
[2024-12-17T17:39:23.591Z]	<Transcriber>	Will_Abramson: We don't have good.
[2024-12-17T17:39:36.426Z]	<Jeff_O_/_HumanOS>	present+
[2024-12-17T17:39:40.176Z]	<Transcriber>	Will_Abramson: Visibility always of all the work that's going on for all the people and like we don't have good ways of creating entry points for people on this call who might want to join you know and help you write it seems like it's at the moment it's just you Isaac and David Wright has been like churning away at this.
[2024-12-17T17:40:34.989Z]	<Transcriber>	Will_Abramson: Well if you email me after and let me know when you've sent it and I can see if I receive it maybe Demetri also has some ideas on maybe.
[2024-12-17T17:40:52.655Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Zagidulin: I had uh I have a different not really processed question but what's the best way to.
[2024-12-17T17:40:57.462Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Zagidulin: The updates to the spec if I go to the.
[2024-12-17T17:41:02.694Z]	<Dmitri_Zagidulin>	https://w3c-ccg.github.io/verifiable-issuers-verifiers/
[2024-12-17T17:41:14.473Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Zagidulin: The the GitHub spec on the URL uh that that's this thing in um in chat uh I I don't see the example of the issue of metadata that you were showing on the slides where could I go to to see those updates.
[2024-12-17T17:41:40.169Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Zagidulin: Got it okay understood.
[2024-12-17T17:41:47.433Z]	<Transcriber>	Will_Abramson: Working in a Google doc or something cuz it's just easier for you to yeah fair enough.
[2024-12-17T17:41:57.586Z]	<Transcriber>	Will_Abramson: Okay do I have any more.
[2024-12-17T17:42:00.624Z]	<Transcriber>	Will_Abramson: Of comments for Isaac.
[2024-12-17T17:42:10.645Z]	<Transcriber>	Will_Abramson: Um or about anything right we have the end of the year so like our Christmas final thing any Reflections or.
[2024-12-17T17:42:16.788Z]	<Transcriber>	Will_Abramson: I mean I'll open up the fault to anything uh if there's nothing then I guess we can close early and.
[2024-12-17T17:42:24.033Z]	<Harrison_Tang>	Just want to say Merry Christmas and Happy New Year to everyone!!!
[2024-12-17T17:42:30.748Z]	<Transcriber>	Will_Abramson: Yeah Harrison why don't you say that to everybody in the.
[2024-12-17T17:42:52.796Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Zagidulin: Understood actually I I have 1 quick question for uh for the verified issue and verifier folks uh which is uh have what are your current thoughts on maintaining either did rotation history or key rotation history in the registry.
[2024-12-17T17:43:49.265Z]	<Transcriber>	Will_Abramson: Okay so I'm not seeing anyone else on the Queue final moments uh in the meantime I'll Echo what Harrison said in the chat you know have a great holidays Merry Christmas Happy New Year um.
[2024-12-17T17:43:54.093Z]	<Transcriber>	Will_Abramson: Look forward to continuing the progress of these groups in the new year um.
[2024-12-17T17:43:58.631Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	Have a great break all!
[2024-12-17T17:44:08.623Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	thank you everyone!
[2024-12-17T17:44:09.146Z]	<Transcriber>	Will_Abramson: Doing a work item was always appreciated.
[2024-12-17T17:44:18.307Z]	<Jeff_O_/_HumanOS>	Thank You All for another fascinating year!
