[2021-05-27T19:00:50.555Z]	<mprorock>	Agenda: https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-credentials/2021May/0157.html
[2021-05-27T19:00:50.555Z]	<mprorock>	Chair: manu
[2021-05-27T19:00:50.555Z]	<mprorock>	present+
[2021-05-27T19:00:52.856Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	present+
[2021-05-27T19:02:38.191Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	present+
[2021-05-27T19:02:38.191Z]	<Aaron_Coburn>	present+
[2021-05-27T19:02:38.191Z]	<David_Ward>	present+
[2021-05-27T19:02:38.191Z]	<Butch_Clark>	present+
[2021-05-27T19:02:38.191Z]	<agropper>	present+
[2021-05-27T19:02:38.191Z]	<tallted>	present+
[2021-05-27T19:02:38.191Z]	<bblfish>	present+
[2021-05-27T19:02:38.191Z]	<Muhamed_TurkanoviÄ‡>	present+
[2021-05-27T19:02:41.200Z]	<brent>	present+
[2021-05-27T19:04:44.487Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	scribe: Juan_Caballero
[2021-05-27T19:04:46.985Z]	<TallTed>	present+
[2021-05-27T19:04:58.912Z]	<Eric_Schuh>	present+
[2021-05-27T19:05:04.080Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	manu: IPR policy and announcements
[2021-05-27T19:05:55.804Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	today's agenda: 1.) shift to new call time, 2.) architecture.md review, first iteration into PR 3.) AuthZ talk
[2021-05-27T19:06:01.028Z]	<acoburn>	present+
[2021-05-27T19:06:24.982Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	manu: AuthZ discussion should be tentative, not trying for resolutions on the call
[2021-05-27T19:06:31.887Z]	<Eric_Schuh>	q+
[2021-05-27T19:06:38.285Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	... but rather to give people ideas for issues and resolutions
[2021-05-27T19:06:55.447Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	eric_schuh: reminder that Use Case submissions still very much welcome!
[2021-05-27T19:07:02.033Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	q+
[2021-05-27T19:07:06.234Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	ack eric
[2021-05-27T19:07:07.602Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	ack juan
[2021-05-27T19:07:19.105Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	juan: I would say a lot of people have submitted useful starting points that we've tried to iterate
[2021-05-27T19:07:30.028Z]	<Adrian_Gropper>	present+
[2021-05-27T19:07:31.416Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	juan: Feel free to expand on what's already written if you think you can contribute in that way
[2021-05-27T19:07:43.851Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	juan: There are a bunch of one-sentence ones that would make a good expanded use case.
[2021-05-27T19:08:04.722Z]	<bblfish>	worth popping in the URL for the use cases here again.
[2021-05-27T19:08:04.829Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	manu: other announcements?
[2021-05-27T19:08:32.619Z]	<acoburn>	q+
[2021-05-27T19:08:35.923Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	Topic: Introductions
[2021-05-27T19:08:36.038Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	... self-intros?
[2021-05-27T19:08:58.361Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	Damon Tindall (Rand): filling in for Marty Reed today
[2021-05-27T19:09:17.831Z]	<Butch_Clark>	q+
[2021-05-27T19:09:22.692Z]	<Eric_Schuh>	Link to use cases doc: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1-u0_Ub6feiX6DH3jXFJFjt6n3CwKGpkmC3VISqDkWL4/edit#heading=h.cctvrmgl94xc
[2021-05-27T19:09:23.527Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	ack Muha
[2021-05-27T19:09:26.277Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	Muhamed: Univ of Slovenia blockchain projects
[2021-05-27T19:09:39.228Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	ack acoburn
[2021-05-27T19:09:44.004Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	q?
[2021-05-27T19:09:57.967Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	Aaron Coburn (Inrupt): Inrupt researching VCs and the VHAPI for consent purposes
[2021-05-27T19:10:06.755Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	ack butch
[2021-05-27T19:10:27.197Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	Butch: DISH Network: working on initiative to investigate SSI and drinking from the firehose here
[2021-05-27T19:10:35.536Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	ack David
[2021-05-27T19:10:41.131Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	q?
[2021-05-27T19:10:56.452Z]	<bblfish>	q+
[2021-05-27T19:11:09.548Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	ack bblfish
[2021-05-27T19:11:13.041Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	David Ward: also new, work with Rand
[2021-05-27T19:11:30.985Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	Henry Story (Babelfish / Solid): researching VCs
[2021-05-27T19:11:42.875Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	ack Charles
[2021-05-27T19:12:05.886Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	announcement to new people: There are great onboarding/map-building materials here:
https://github.com/w3c-ccg/CCG101
and
https://identity.foundation/faq/
[2021-05-27T19:12:24.543Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	ack Charles
[2021-05-27T19:12:24.814Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	Charles: Here researching and learning as well, from BCGob
[2021-05-27T19:12:25.700Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	v
[2021-05-27T19:12:35.410Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	ack Charles
[2021-05-27T19:13:00.589Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	q+ to demo what manu is saying
[2021-05-27T19:13:02.889Z]	<bblfish>	The EU project that is sponsoring this implementation of Solid is Solid Control https://nlnet.nl/project/SolidControl/ for researching Access Control and Solid. And Verifiable Credentials is part of it.
[2021-05-27T19:13:06.226Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	q- to change my mind
[2021-05-27T19:13:24.285Z]	<brent>	q?
[2021-05-27T19:13:27.623Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	Topic: Change in Call Meeting Time
[2021-05-27T19:13:30.284Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	q-
[2021-05-27T19:13:55.320Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	manu: Topic #1 - call times
[2021-05-27T19:14:14.854Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	scribe would like the record to show AAWW
[2021-05-27T19:15:50.588Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	manu: clear winner is 4pm tuesdays EST
[2021-05-27T19:15:53.289Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	...starting next week
[2021-05-27T19:16:08.285Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	Topic: Review of Updated Architecture Diagrams
[2021-05-27T19:16:12.418Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	... Topic #2 - architecture overview updates
[2021-05-27T19:16:25.894Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	Issuer Architecture Detail diagram: https://docs.google.com/drawings/d/10IDaack2vKch-CZpGBm8o1nLodyBHeeUsQ7PubIL338/edit
[2021-05-27T19:16:43.428Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	Verifier Detail Architecture Diagram: https://docs.google.com/drawings/d/19wJSXTVabVpYJIv1b2hXPPpJ2mPlDkhyYnHylQFwE0Q/edit
[2021-05-27T19:16:58.417Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	Holder Architecture Detail Diagram: https://docs.google.com/drawings/d/1NhozgPLPWEB8Hyun8MfUBUAudrTIoQ-ONesnq8MncrM/edit
[2021-05-27T19:18:14.335Z]	<Adrian_Gropper>	q+
[2021-05-27T19:18:33.497Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	manu: these diagrams reflect last week's feedback
[2021-05-27T19:18:45.728Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	... and the hope is that by end of this call we can approve them as a tentative starting point
[2021-05-27T19:19:17.977Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	agropper: where it says "receive credentials" between issuer and holder, I'm curious where capabilities fit in.  can they also be issued between the same parts?
[2021-05-27T19:19:34.154Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	manu: Good question, i'm not sure we have consensus on scope issue
[2021-05-27T19:19:50.175Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	... CHAPI is one way of doing it in a way that has worked so far for many users of this API
[2021-05-27T19:20:00.858Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	... i think we need to discuss this in topic #3 a bit
[2021-05-27T19:20:37.569Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	agropper: ok we'll come back to it, as long as the minutes show that it was proposed
[2021-05-27T19:20:56.848Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	manu: of course, this is just tentative agreement on a basis for future additions
[2021-05-27T19:21:13.941Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	... blue outlines refer to components in scope/focus of this API spec
[2021-05-27T19:22:01.093Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	... Reminder: Web Service was chosen here to name superset of websites and machine-to-machine interfaces
[2021-05-27T19:22:08.580Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	... objections? none voiced
[2021-05-27T19:22:15.290Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	... (resolution forthcoming after review)
[2021-05-27T19:22:21.507Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	... Next up: Verifiers
[2021-05-27T19:23:42.236Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	... app service added to reflect separation of concerns and order of operations between verification, validation, business logic, etc (but still out of scope of the API)
[2021-05-27T19:23:53.184Z]	<acoburn>	q+ should the arrows on request/receive point in the other direction?
[2021-05-27T19:24:04.877Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	... as in previous diagram, external APIs called out
[2021-05-27T19:24:05.090Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	ack adrian
[2021-05-27T19:24:09.102Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	ack aco
[2021-05-27T19:24:45.791Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	acoburn: arrows on holder-web service could be going the wrong way, no?
[2021-05-27T19:25:10.514Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	manu: actually you're right, the push/pull discussion on github is a little unresolved, there are both verifier- and holder-initiated ways of doing this
[2021-05-27T19:25:32.826Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	... there might be a "step 0" missing that we should discuss in coming weeks
[2021-05-27T19:25:56.400Z]	<Adrian_Gropper>	q+
[2021-05-27T19:26:02.841Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	... for now, we should maybe leave it as-is for simplicity's sake and make a note to return to the "start workflow"/step 0 later
[2021-05-27T19:26:03.048Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	ack Muhamed
[2021-05-27T19:26:14.814Z]	<bblfish>	q+
[2021-05-27T19:26:35.020Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	ack Adrian
[2021-05-27T19:26:38.978Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	muhamed: authority agency implemented a "start workflow" step in our ministry, initiated by holder
[2021-05-27T19:26:44.784Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	manu: that // CHAPI
[2021-05-27T19:27:02.145Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	ack bblfish
[2021-05-27T19:27:03.682Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	agropper: again, capabilities could be passed here instead of VPs.
[2021-05-27T19:27:11.968Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	manu: yes, to be discussed in topic #3
[2021-05-27T19:27:12.841Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	q+ for larger discussion around "dumb pipe" like CHAPI
[2021-05-27T19:27:31.279Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	bblfish: In Solid, we have an OWL-style query
[2021-05-27T19:27:41.449Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	... that we use before requesting presentations
[2021-05-27T19:27:45.486Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	... is this analogous?
[2021-05-27T19:28:16.432Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	ack Manu
[2021-05-27T19:28:19.109Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	Manu: Yes, thru an RDF lens, you could say this is like a SPARQL query: server says "these are the tuples i want" and VP is answer to that shaped query
[2021-05-27T19:28:50.162Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	manu: returning to Adrian's question about Caps is whether the API should work the way CHAPI does or be more generalized/narrowly-scoped
[2021-05-27T19:29:00.271Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	... CHAPI is agnostic about request/presentation formats
[2021-05-27T19:29:26.771Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	... the question is whether VHAPI should also be a "dumb pipe", like CHAPI is
[2021-05-27T19:29:49.795Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	... or whether it should constrain what passes over it (i.e., distinguishing between VPs and ZCaps and other payloads)
[2021-05-27T19:30:28.486Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	... does anyone object to this diagram going into the spec as a starting point
[2021-05-27T19:30:34.525Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	(none are voiced)
[2021-05-27T19:30:46.454Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	Manu: third diagram about holders
[2021-05-27T19:31:17.023Z]	<Adrian_Gropper>	q+
[2021-05-27T19:31:53.073Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	ack Adrian
[2021-05-27T19:31:53.097Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	manu: review of changes from last week: KMS as distinct component , "Wallet" Service
[2021-05-27T19:32:05.523Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	agropper: do we need this diagram?
[2021-05-27T19:32:16.743Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	q+
[2021-05-27T19:32:17.613Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	q+ to respond to "do we need this diagram"?
[2021-05-27T19:32:46.111Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/vc-http-api/issues/176
[2021-05-27T19:33:11.866Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	Muhamed: why wasn't KMS in the issuer and verifier?
[2021-05-27T19:33:21.802Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	... or for that matter wallet service
[2021-05-27T19:33:22.619Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	q+ to "Why no KMS in issuer/verifier"?
[2021-05-27T19:33:28.024Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	ack juan
[2021-05-27T19:34:08.669Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	juan: Pointing out that the issue 176 raised by contributors to spec shows a custodial holder / multi-party holder -- assuming architecture for holders is simple/direct -- is not necessarily something we should do.
[2021-05-27T19:34:39.849Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	juan: There is complexity around guardianship, enterprise, custodial, all of those things -- difficulty of mapping this API is why this process is getting complicated -- good to be segmented as holder/issuer/verifier are.
[2021-05-27T19:34:48.902Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	juan: Just to say that part of complexity here comes from use cases like that.
[2021-05-27T19:34:52.521Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	ack manu
[2021-05-27T19:35:20.837Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	+1 we feel its very missing
[2021-05-27T19:35:29.019Z]	<mprorock>	+1 manu - you have hit the nail on the head
[2021-05-27T19:35:30.167Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	and super important
[2021-05-27T19:35:30.902Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	manu: do we need this diagram? short answer is yes. this is one of the parts of the system that the tracevocab group came here to expand the holder options
[2021-05-27T19:35:50.887Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	... particularly in cases where multiple legitimate holders pass VCs between them
[2021-05-27T19:36:03.595Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	+1
[2021-05-27T19:36:30.184Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	ack manu
[2021-05-27T19:36:48.313Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	manu: Also want to address Muhamed's question about KMS in issuer/verifier diagrams
[2021-05-27T19:36:59.949Z]	<mprorock>	q+
[2021-05-27T19:37:18.163Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	... we could add KMS and storage to issuer/verifier for completeness
[2021-05-27T19:37:26.494Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	ack mprorock
[2021-05-27T19:37:37.549Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	... or we could leave it out for simplicity's sake, if it isn't determinant or important
[2021-05-27T19:37:55.794Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	mprorock: I think that people coming from other contexts might appreciate the "best practices" nod
[2021-05-27T19:38:12.684Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	... i.e., seeing it in one diagram and not others, they might assume that they don't need one or shouldn't use one
[2021-05-27T19:38:16.202Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	ack muha
[2021-05-27T19:38:20.976Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	... or get confused
[2021-05-27T19:38:50.735Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	Muhamed: Want to add from experience (on Authority Agent) that issuers often NEED a KMS to be able to participate in VC flows
[2021-05-27T19:39:13.104Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	Manu: Question: add to issuer but not to verifier?
[2021-05-27T19:39:13.979Z]	<mprorock>	verifier as well
[2021-05-27T19:39:24.475Z]	<mprorock>	q+
[2021-05-27T19:39:47.811Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	manu: Maybe it would help to be explicit: what does the issuer need KMS for, and how does it relate? what are the interfaces?
[2021-05-27T19:40:07.685Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	mprorock: We tend to try to standardize the usage/reliance on KMS across use-cases and projects
[2021-05-27T19:40:26.746Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	mprorock: what you're drawing on the screenshare looks like most of our usecases
[2021-05-27T19:40:49.393Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	... even things like initiating a TLS require KMS, but maybe it's not worth including that
[2021-05-27T19:41:08.580Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	manu: Caveat: boundaries/boxes a little inaccurate now, needs a tweak
[2021-05-27T19:41:16.771Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	... just working on other semantic aspects for now
[2021-05-27T19:41:26.471Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	manu: any objections to this?
[2021-05-27T19:41:38.446Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	q+
[2021-05-27T19:41:42.263Z]	<David_Ward>	Should the term be Presentations between Verifier and Holder?
[2021-05-27T19:41:51.441Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	ack mpro
[2021-05-27T19:41:54.911Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	ack juan
[2021-05-27T19:42:20.235Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	juan: My only question, there was a lot of talk for a while about multiple holders -- should we include some visual reference for that concept?
[2021-05-27T19:42:21.339Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	q+
[2021-05-27T19:42:36.689Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	juan: Is another holder a verifier for the purposes of the interaction?
[2021-05-27T19:42:38.676Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	ack manu
[2021-05-27T19:42:57.004Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	manu: you could stack all of these boxes-- there could be multiple of any of these
[2021-05-27T19:43:20.482Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	... and because a realworld entity could occupy all three roles at one time or in one interactions
[2021-05-27T19:43:41.557Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	... so if a holder is send to another holder, that 2nd holder is verifier
[2021-05-27T19:43:52.518Z]	<TallTed>	Holder -> Holder does *not* imply the recipient is a Verifier, and is a different situation than multiple Issuers (to one or many Holders) or multiple Verifiers (receiving from one or many Holders)
[2021-05-27T19:44:00.319Z]	<TallTed>	q+
[2021-05-27T19:44:01.429Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	... so let's keep the diagram simple and explain the variability in the text as how to interpret it
[2021-05-27T19:44:30.430Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	TallTed: I think a holder-to-holder transfer will be distinct and have its own properties
[2021-05-27T19:44:45.463Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	Manu: New diagram probably better than adding that to these
[2021-05-27T19:44:49.192Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	Tallted: Agreed
[2021-05-27T19:44:55.974Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	ack tall
[2021-05-27T19:44:57.127Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	Manu: Proposal incoming
[2021-05-27T19:44:57.640Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	ack david
[2021-05-27T19:45:20.569Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	David Ward: should "Credentials" be "Presentations" on the exchange arrow axis?
[2021-05-27T19:45:26.577Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	Manu: Yes, missed that! thanks, updating now
[2021-05-27T19:46:07.763Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	PROPOSAL: Adopt the three diagrams (issuer, verifier, and holder) as initial diagrams to be placed into the specification. It is expected that these diagrams will be iterated upon.
[2021-05-27T19:46:16.987Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	manu: (proposal)
[2021-05-27T19:46:17.695Z]	<mprorock>	+1
[2021-05-27T19:46:19.251Z]	<Mike_Varley>	+1
[2021-05-27T19:46:22.036Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	+1
[2021-05-27T19:46:25.284Z]	<acoburn>	+1
[2021-05-27T19:46:26.044Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	+1
[2021-05-27T19:46:29.400Z]	<Eric_Schuh>	+1
[2021-05-27T19:46:33.592Z]	<TallTed>	+1
[2021-05-27T19:46:34.949Z]	<Charles_Edebiri>	+1
[2021-05-27T19:46:36.719Z]	<Butch_Clark>	+1
[2021-05-27T19:46:38.704Z]	<Adrian_Gropper>	+0
[2021-05-27T19:46:39.651Z]	<Muhamed_TurkanoviÃ„â€¡_(Blockchain_Lab:UM)>	0
[2021-05-27T19:46:44.902Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	+1
[2021-05-27T19:46:49.735Z]	<Marty_Reed>	+1
[2021-05-27T19:47:06.592Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	RESOLVED: Adopt the three diagrams (issuer, verifier, and holder) as initial diagrams to be placed into the specification. It is expected that these diagrams will be iterated upon.
[2021-05-27T19:47:46.587Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	Topic: Start Authorization Discussion
[2021-05-27T19:49:28.309Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	Manu: Overview of discussion to date: pros and cons of prior art and of ZCaps (W3C draft spec used by many involved companies)
[2021-05-27T19:49:33.038Z]	<Adrian_Gropper>	q+
[2021-05-27T19:49:44.663Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	ack adrian
[2021-05-27T19:49:47.745Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	... would like to hear from companies involved
[2021-05-27T19:49:49.889Z]	<Mike_Varley>	q+
[2021-05-27T19:49:54.936Z]	<mprorock>	q+
[2021-05-27T19:50:03.203Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	agropper: arguments against OAuth2 are mostly about delegation
[2021-05-27T19:50:45.776Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	... I feel that OAuth2 has human rights issues and that specifying it would open a delegation can of worms
[2021-05-27T19:50:54.720Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	ack mike
[2021-05-27T19:50:58.514Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	... and my experiences with delegation problems in UMA are why i am so emphatic here
[2021-05-27T19:51:23.380Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	Mike_Varley: SecureKey is supportive of GNAP and anchoring delegation in end-user
[2021-05-27T19:51:53.679Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	ack mpro
[2021-05-27T19:51:54.453Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	... but I also think this spec could and should specify how VCs handle credentials (perhaps with ZCaps)
[2021-05-27T19:52:35.997Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	mprorock: Oauth isn't perfect, but it is industry standard and it is what everyone who we want to use this API is currently using, including all of our customers
[2021-05-27T19:53:07.661Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	... i cannot take GNAP today to any of my customers, to be blunt. it will get there but today, at a minimum, we have to find a way to meet people where they are
[2021-05-27T19:53:08.086Z]	<Mike_Varley>	+1 too GNAP being "early".
[2021-05-27T19:53:11.083Z]	<bblfish>	q+
[2021-05-27T19:53:17.896Z]	<Adrian_Gropper>	q+
[2021-05-27T19:53:19.719Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	ack muhamed
[2021-05-27T19:53:33.930Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	Muhamed: I just want to ask if we are talking about authZ or authN too?
[2021-05-27T19:54:04.917Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	q?
[2021-05-27T19:54:05.004Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	Manu: AuthN happens through other protocols, and is out of scope (this API assumes parties are already authN to each other)
[2021-05-27T19:54:08.703Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	ack bblfish
[2021-05-27T19:55:14.686Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	bblfish: I'm also trying to get a firmer grip on the language. I tend to think of authZ as a description of what attributes should be requested and sent.
[2021-05-27T19:56:18.268Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	... you're thinking of every application jumping around along links and fetching data, as they do today in a browser; wallet has no idea where it will go next to fetch what it needs; OAuth is a problem here and VCs can help here
[2021-05-27T19:56:21.227Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	q?
[2021-05-27T19:56:29.461Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	q+ to provide definition of "authorization"
[2021-05-27T19:56:38.264Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	ack Adrian
[2021-05-27T19:56:50.029Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	... this makes for a very different AuthZ topology versus "loggin in and staying in" at each website
[2021-05-27T19:57:29.356Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	agropper: I want to avoid framing zero-sum either/or argument. I want this spec to require GNAP either on top of or alongside OAuth
[2021-05-27T19:58:05.796Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	... i think issuers and institutions will not adopt GNAP without the kind of pressure that would come from this spec requiring it or specifying it as the best way to get holder consent/involvement at a low level
[2021-05-27T19:58:12.560Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	ack manu
[2021-05-27T19:58:14.307Z]	<mprorock>	I would note we have a system to system use case primarily, not an end user facing system (typically at this stage), hence Authorization: Bearer ........
[2021-05-27T19:58:25.171Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	Manu: To address Henry's comment, i think there is a terminology mismatch
[2021-05-27T19:58:33.682Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	... you mean the process of getting authorization to do somethign
[2021-05-27T19:58:52.814Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	... but here we mean more like authZ check, i.e., "are you authorized to be checking this endpoint? "
[2021-05-27T19:59:24.086Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	manu: To address Adrian, I think there is too much confusion around "who is on sovereign" and it should get clearer over time
[2021-05-27T19:59:50.565Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	... no is against OAuth2, and it is minimum we can do.  consensus seems to be "putting GNAP, ZCaps, and other upgrades alongside OAuth"
[2021-05-27T19:59:50.567Z]	<mprorock>	+1 allow others as they become adopted at a broader scale
[2021-05-27T20:00:01.145Z]	<bblfish>	I guess I need to really understand what is meant here by authZ
[2021-05-27T20:00:10.344Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	... we should think about how to make OAuth the minimum/basement and specify preferences for upgrade paths
[2021-05-27T20:00:11.861Z]	<Muhamed_TurkanoviÃ„â€¡_(Blockchain_Lab:UM)>	few question for next time:
a mediator for the holder, is it needed in this context?
[2021-05-27T20:00:13.968Z]	<Muhamed_TurkanoviÃ„â€¡_(Blockchain_Lab:UM)>	And what about authentication of the holder towards the issuer/verifier (maybe in terms of legacy PKI systems)?
[2021-05-27T20:00:35.720Z]	<Eric_Schuh>	use cases doc: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1-u0_Ub6feiX6DH3jXFJFjt6n3CwKGpkmC3VISqDkWL4/edit#heading=h.cctvrmgl94xc
[2021-05-27T20:00:36.661Z]	<mprorock>	thanks for facilitating manu!
[2021-05-27T20:00:43.310Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	manu: next week, please get in touch to add to the agenda and think about authZ
[2021-05-27T20:00:47.350Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	thanks all
