Thanks to  for scribing this week! The minutes
for this week's CCG Verifiable Credentials for Education Task Force telecon are now available:

https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/2021-02-08-vc-education 

Full text of the discussion follows for W3C archival purposes.
Audio from the meeting is available as well (link provided below).

----------------------------------------------------------------
CCG Verifiable Credentials for Education Task Force Telecon Minutes for 2021-02-08

Agenda:
  https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-credentials/2021Feb/0036.html
Topics:
  1. Introductions and Re-Introductions
  2. Announcements & Reminders
  3. Milestone 1 review
  4. Next milestone kickoff
Resolutions:
  1. Ok to merge PR as new baseline and start 3-week countdown
Action Items:
  1. clarify who can submit use case; w3c CLA signed?
  2. Create Milestone 2 github issue with concept "issuer"
Organizer:
  Wayne Chang and Kim Hamilton Duffy and Heather Vescent
Scribe:
  
Present:
  Kim Hamilton Duffy, Adam Lemmon, Nate Otto, Phil Long, Brent 
  Shambaugh, Dmitri Zagidulin, Jim Goodell, John Gasper, Jeff 
  McCullough, Jim Kelly, Keith Kowal, Juan Caballero, Kerri Lemoie, 
  Marty Reed, Simone Ravaoli, Matt Lisle, James Chartrand, Stuart 
  Freeman, Phil_Barker, Timothy Ruff, Stuart Sutton, Taylor 
  Kendall, David Ward, Jarlath O'Carroll, Nick Hathaway, Andres 
  Bonifacio, Heather Vescent
Audio:
  https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/2021-02-08/audio.ogg


Topic: Introductions and Re-Introductions

<kimhd> Re-introduced Heather Vescent and Kerri Lemoie

Topic: Announcements & Reminders

Kim Hamilton Duffy: Submit use cases using 1 of these options: 
  Github issue template or Google form: 
  https://forms.gle/pHQSG7vft9zvLioS7
Kim Hamilton Duffy: IMS Global Conference: 
  https://web.cvent.com/event/d7e9d56a-0d6c-4f6d-89d9-a353430eca8e/summary

ACTION: clarify who can submit use case; w3c CLA signed?

Topic: Milestone 1 review

Kim Hamilton Duffy: Reviewed PR 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/vc-ed-models/pull/30 (Preview 
  https://www.okimsrazor.com/vc-ed-models/)
<kimhd> Ensure it's clear that peer issuers are supported
Kim Hamilton Duffy: Question: do we need to add a use case where 
  subject is Organization?
<kimhd> Discussed CLR and ambiguity compared with VC/VPs

RESOLUTION: Ok to merge PR as new baseline and start 3-week 
  countdown

<kimhd> Please submit PRs/issues or raise concerns to the task 
  force (email/meeting) within the next 3 weeks.

Topic: Next milestone kickoff

Kim Hamilton Duffy: Reviewed Q1 workplan 
  https://docs.google.com/document/d/1vjrvwmvHOYmJd_Dqwk_TfGjKLTiTe9fzX9J4QqCUcf0
<kimhd> Decided to proceed with issuer concept for milestone 2, 
  driven by kimhd, Phil-T3, ottonomy, and marty_reed

ACTION: Create Milestone 2 github issue with concept "issuer"

