Thanks to Adrian Gropper for scribing this week! The minutes
for this week's Credentials CG telecon are now available:

https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/2021-02-03 

Full text of the discussion follows for W3C archival purposes.
Audio from the meeting is available as well (link provided below).

----------------------------------------------------------------
Credentials CG Telecon Minutes for 2021-02-03

Agenda:
  https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-credentials/2021Feb/0020.html
Topics:
  1. Introductions & Reintroductions
  2. Updates from the ecosystem - DID Universal Resolver Task 
    Force
  3. DID Core progress
  4. DIF F2F
Organizer:
  Kim Hamilton Duffy and Wayne Chang and Heather Vescent
Scribe:
  Adrian Gropper
Present:
  Amy Guy, Ted Thibodeau, Charles E. Lehner, Heather Vescent, Jeff 
  Orgel, Mike Prorock, Erica Connell, Manu Sporny, Brent Zundel, 
  Adrian Gropper, Chris Winczewski, Jim Goodell, Wayne Chang, Joe 
  Andrieu, Markus Sabadello, Orie Steele, Ryan Grant, Dmitri 
  Zagidulin, Juan Caballero, Balázs Némethi, Michael Herman, Kaliya 
  Young
Audio:
  https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/2021-02-03/audio.ogg

<manu> Wayne does standard intro to CCG, goes over how to queue, 
  IPR agreement, meeting etiquette, etc.
Adrian Gropper is scribing.

Topic: Introductions & Reintroductions

Michael_herman: founder of project Trusted Digital Web - 
  initiated virtual credentials discussion - living in BC
<michael_herman_(trusted_digital_web)> Alberta! :-)
Joe_a Legendary requirements, involved with RWoTrust - doing a 
  salon on Feb 25 - check it out
Joe Andrieu: http://decentralizedprivacy2021.eventbrite.com
Wayne Chang:  Change in the Advanced Biometrics conference date 
  per Kaliya
https://github.com/w3c-ccg/community/labels/action%3A%20review%20next
Kaliya Young: 
  https://twitter.com/digitalsista/status/1355870475902181382
<michael_herman_(trusted_digital_web)> @joeandrieu does this work 
  for personal messages?
Wayne Chang:  Infrastructure Task force now, kickoff date still 
  pending, sending Doodle today, NPM repository for test suites,
<bumblefudge> @Michael i saw that, so i'm guessing no :D
<joeandrieu> Kaliya, if you'd like to say something, please say 
  it. Otherwise, I'd ask the chairs to remove that comment from the 
  record.
https://github.com/w3c-ccg/community/issues/136
  ... revisit work item templates - want to review - election 
  objections satisfied - simplified to having signed contributor 
  agreement and joined the group - elapsing the two week period and 
  will be able to proceed soon
  ... changes discussed since Dec - please raise
Heather Vescent:  About time? do we need to wait? when is this 
  done?
Wayne Chang:  Announced changes to mailinglust about two weeks 
  ago - satisfied all - proceed
Heather Vescent:  Have election stuff ready to go - how long 
  should I wait?
Wayne Chang:  Monday should be acceptable
Heather Vescent:  To make sure: Monday Feb 8 EOD deadline for any 
  feedback on changes - after the 8 Heather can do the election 
  kickoff. - great TY

Topic: Updates from the ecosystem - DID Universal Resolver Task Force

Markus Sabadello:  DID resolution is a CCG work item - draft 
  specification covers going from DID to DiD document - no calla in 
  Dec or Jan - there's a strong dependency on DID Core - previously 
  when work started scope was clear...
  ... subsequently, some elements are now considered in DID  Core 
  - so relationship between DID and DID URL, resolving vs. 
  dereferencing - things are still changing in DID Core - impact 
  resolution spec so we did not work much on this specification
<bumblefudge> /me hehe DIF can cede a little time, I wanna see 
  this :D
  ... sharing screen: DID Core Spec section on DID Resolution - 
  defines inputs and outputs now in DID Core. What remains for 
  Resolution spec: Resolving a DID and Dereferencing a DID URL. DID 
  Core does not define the algorithm on how you drive at outputs - 
  e.g. what metadataa is returned
<orie> /me did resolution can be whatever i want it to be <insert 
  thanos meme>
  ... another item is Architecture. DID resolution is not a 
  single protocol. Can be a local library or a hosted service - 
  concepts such as local or remote resolvers - how do you trust a 
  resolver - how does the resolver access the DID document -
<michael_herman_(trusted_digital_web)> A DID resolved can be 
  implemented on a DNS server too: 
  https://hyperonomy.com/2019/12/03/trusted-digital-web-first-trusted-web-page-delivered-today-dec-3-2019/
<michael_herman_(trusted_digital_web)> A DID resolver can be...
  ... rulnning local full node or relining on API - client-side 
  dereferencing - if you want to dereference a fragment part could 
  been a server and some local to a client.
Orie Steele: /Me 
  https://didme.me/did:meme:1zgsprnee48qhzq5yulgygcmanx8nmcv56nu4kpmcm4a2g4p4faqjmdst98l69
  .... what are the implications for trust and security.
Orie Steele: Somehow the most important part of DID Core is still 
  a CCG work item :(
  ... And then: the two sections bindings for JSON-LD resolution 
  returns two types of metadata but the look is not defined in 
  Core. HTTP bindings is also not defined E.G. if the DID does not 
  exist but it's just an example
  ... progress slow due to interdependency with DID Core. There's 
  a meeting page - want to upgrade the infrastructure - plan 
  bi-weekly meetings starting next Monday - will review this in a 
  bit more detail - invite anyone - lots of things still to do -
  ... work is still needed and relevant - will send email to list 
  as invite
Manu Sporny:  +1 Work is very relevant needed and necessary - i 
  feel like the DID resolution spec is the next thing to go into 
  the W3C process - a lot of people wanted to work on it in DID 
  Core - expect that at some point the stuff in DID Core will move 
  back to DID Resolution - work still needed - the next official WG
Waybe: brent ack: DID Core progress - goals - what is CR and more

Topic: DID Core progress

<heathervescent> Marcus FYI, you are still sharing your screen...
Markus Sabadello: I don't know how to turn off screenshare :)
<wayne> i think it's ghost sharing, not actually sharing just the 
  afterimage
Manu Sporny: +1 ^^ Ghost sharing -- we're not seeing any updates.
Brent Zundel:  DID Core specification incubated right here, 
  worked on RWoT sessions, all of that work became the heart of the 
  DID WG - have been trying to define a data model for DID 
  Documents - DID URL - Additional Parameters - test suites - all 
  according to W3C process
  ... started with working draft which is fluid - noe in order to 
  turn it into an official W3C Recommendation we need specified 
  periods. CR is the first phase means it's to the point where 
  implementers can use it - during CR no substantive changes 
  allowed -
  ... if there are errors we will need to enter another phase of 
  CR - The LAST day to submit to this version of CR is FEB 9! - 
  most of the big things have been resolved over time - structural 
  things like an Abstract Data Model - introduced DID Spec Registry 
  -
  ... had many in -depth conversations on privacy - an 
  outstanding Use Cases Documents ever -
<orie> We have some awesome chairs and editors as well! Thanks to 
  Brent, Dan, and the editors.
Wayne Chang:  Questions for Brent?
<dmitriz> thanks markus!!
Markus Sabadello:  Forgot to say - need to acknowledge Dmitri who 
  figured out the relationship between the two specs -
Wayne Chang:  TY Dmitri -
Manu Sporny:  Could Brent reiterate the timeline for WG
Dmitri Zagidulin: (For those that are curious, since we were just 
  talking about DIDs, and Solid was mentioned - here's the current 
  proposal to the Solid community to use DIDs - 
  https://github.com/solid/specification/issues/217 )
<wayne> +1!
<agropper>	brent: feb 9 deadline for pr >> editorial activity to 
  resolve the pr >> by end of feb formal transition >> a couple of 
  months for feedback from implementers >> editorial refinements >> 
  transition to Proposed Recommendation which is the final stage
Wayne Chang:  What are the biggest risks?
Brent Zundel:  All the riskes and blockers have been raise - the 
  most extensive conversations around privacy and security - DID 
  resolution conversations have been done - I feel like most of the 
  big issues handled - politics in W3C, DID is not on the same 
  ground as VC - the view for
  ... what we're doing is shifting - invited to present to FIDO 
  Alliance today - not anticipating a lot of opposition - hopeful
Wayne Chang:  Great how aligned the ecosystem - positive to hear
Orie Steele: This time around Microsoft has a DID Method, so they 
  don't want to see the spec killed.... nice :)
Manu Sporny:  The CCG has been instrumental in helping to make 
  this smoother than it was with VC - big community - many people 
  watching - ton of thanks to the Chairs - Brent, Dan, Ivan, - 
  incubate specs in CCG
Brent Zundel: +1 Ccg has been vitally important
  ... want to highlight - require proof you have done sufficient 
  horizontal review - CCG has an opportunity to read the spec and 
  raise issues - if you're waiting that date is late Feb or Early 
  March
Wayne Chang:  Any questions before we move on

Topic: DIF F2F

Balazs: Background started about two and a half years ago - goal 
  to related work items across multiple WG - some misalignment 
  across groups - was around IIW - first 3 were IPR-protected
<bumblefudge> Link to overview document full of recording videos 
  here: http://bit.ly/dif-f2f-jan2021
<bumblefudge> wayne, i believe you're still screensharing as 
  well?
  ... since this year we switched to a virtual format and makes 
  more sense to open the event from workshop to education - enable 
  non-members too - there was a big upgrade to gather.town - 
  extension to zoom - interaction space - 3 additional
  ... rooms where gdocs could be used - har 122 people at peak + 
  50 people in workshop rooms - gather.town 110 people with much 
  overlap.
Juan Caballero:  Content is my middle name - experiment with 
  unconference format - more p2p sessions - speaking on behalf of 
  work items or proposed work items - the main stage was report 
  outs from the various groups -
<rgrant> present-
<phil.l> link to the article being referred to?
  ... Medium article with a paragraph and video - check it out - 
  highlight Markus graph of Universal Resolver adoption - also less 
  technical WGs represented - recommend following the link and 
  check out their GitHubs - Produc Managers produces a lot of 
  useful materials -
http://bit.ly/dif-f2f-jan2021
  ... in terms of the highlight from Member Stage, many sessions 
  on work items such as PoC at comprehensive learner records, ID 
  Union governance problems, Eric Welton research on OSS tooling 
  for DID rubrics - DID method comparisons -
  ... use case for KERI - updates from OIDF -
Wayne Chang:  TY - questions?
Balázs Némethi: 
  https://medium.com/decentralized-identity/dif-face-to-face-jan-2021-highlights-89e78cb80f54
<bumblefudge> (the bitly link has no paywall :D )
Balázs Némethi: Here is link with no paywall:
<heathervescent> What's the link to the use case document that 
  was mentioned?
Manu Sporny:  What are the next 3-6-12 months for DIF? where's 
  DID headed? a industry body that publishes interior 
  recommendations - conformance testing - incubator for SDOs?
Juan Caballero:  There was a meeting today - proposed new WG 
  charter proposed - IPR protected group to do interior profile 
  work - helping people navigate wallet gov standards - bridging 
  role between inter- DIF not chartered as a trade association - up 
  to the members
  ... in terms of interior - test suite maintenance and education 
  after the March plugathon. Filling in gaps in W3C
Michael Herman:  At meta level - there's more and more overlap 
  between organizations -
<orie> monkaS ...TOIP / DIF / CCG
<balazs_nemethi> Thanks, Manu, DIF has a 2021 focus on 
  implementations of the technology and adjacent actions that make 
  that happen
<identitywoman> they all exist for different reasons. those 
  reasons still exist.
<manu_sporny> got it Balazs, thank you
<michael_herman_(trusted_digital_web)> Maybe we need the 
  comprehensive map/Venn diagram of what the entire landscape looks 
  like today.
Juan Caballero:  Agree but I don't have an answer
<bumblefudge> /me heather on q, no?
<michael_herman_(trusted_digital_web)> Know what we have today
<bumblefudge> as per re-entering the space, this might be 
  helpful: 
<michael_herman_(trusted_digital_web)> Heather, that's not what 
  I'm talking about ...i.e. collaboration
Heather Vescent:  Everyone loves collaborating - but 
  pragmatically it's not going to happen - a dream - always going 
  to be different silos - this is a robust marketplace
<michael_herman_(trusted_digital_web)> Something is needed today 
  to simply understand the landscape
Wayne Chang:  Diverse space is good
<charles_lehner_(spruce)> Thanks
<wayne> iniating kick of anyone remaining to alllw cgbot to do 
  its thing...
