Thanks to Our Robot Overlords for scribing this week!

The transcript for the call is now available here:

https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/2024-12-03/

Full text of the discussion follows for W3C archival purposes.
Audio of the meeting is available at the following location:

https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/2024-12-03/audio.ogg

A video recording is also available at:

https://meet.w3c-ccg.org/archives/w3c-ccg-weekly-2024-12-03.mp4

----------------------------------------------------------------
W3C CCG Weekly Teleconference Transcript for 2024-12-03

Agenda:
  https://www.w3.org/Search/Mail/Public/advanced_search?hdr-1-name=subject&hdr-1-query=%5BAGENDA&period_month=Dec&period_year=2024&index-grp=Public__FULL&index-type=t&type-index=public-credentials&resultsperpage=20&sortby=date
Organizer:
  Harrison Tang, Kimberly Linson, Will Abramson
Scribe:
  Our Robot Overlords
Present:
  Harrison Tang, Kimberly Linson, Simone Ravaoli, Vanessa, Dmitri 
  Zagidulin, Ildiko Mazar, Erica Connell, Mahmoud Alkhraishi, 
  Rashmi Siravara, TallTed // Ted Thibodeau (he/him) 
  (OpenLinkSw.com), Will Abramson, Greg Natran, Adam Bradlet, Joe 
  Andrieu, James Chartrand, Tim Bloomfield, Colin Reynolds, Ed 
  Design Lab, Nis Jespersen , Greg Bernstein, Adam Bradley, Kaliya 
  Young, Jeff O / HumanOS, Jennie M, Kerri Lemoie, Przemek 
  Praszczalek

Our Robot Overlords are scribing.
Kimberly Linson:  All right oh.
Harrison_Tang: Right we're good to go.
<harrison_tang> Add "Topic: <VC EDU Task Force Updates>"
Kimberly Linson:  All right well welcome everybody we are really 
  excited to have an update from the vce to task force today um 
  they have been doing there's been a lot of work going on um and 
  that is definitely um since I'm also in the education space um 
  I'm excited to hear from from everything that's been there um to 
  kind of quickly um run through our housekeeping notes uh 1 I want 
  to remind everyone of the um professional code of conduct and 
  ethics that we adhere to in this community we are.
Kimberly Linson:  All working towards the same goals we may 
  approach things differently but I think keeping in mind that that 
  this is a collaborative and and congenial Community is um is 
  definitely something to keep the front of your mind and um we 
  also.
Kimberly Linson:  Anyone to to participate in these meetings and 
  are happy that you're here if you would like to participate more 
  formally then you can uh join the follow the links in the agenda 
  to to join the ccg formally and fill out an IPR agreement we 
  would invite you to do that and encourage you to do that um so 
  that you can become an active participant uh in in 2025.
Kimberly Linson:  And uh also we keep.
Kimberly Linson:  Record of the of these calls via the audio 
  recording the recording we just started and also the chat um so 
  that we have the a record of these meetings for historical um art 
  for our archive.
Kimberly Linson:  And if you have questions or you want to 
  participate in the conversation then I would advise you to put Q 
  Plus in the chat um and then that really will will uh identify 
  for me as I'm uh moderating the meeting that you have something 
  you want to say or a question you want to ask and I will be 
  responsible for.
Kimberly Linson:  Um facilitating that conversation and uh now 
  comes the time where I would love to invite anyone in the 
  community to introduce themselves if they're new to this 
  conversation or if you haven't been here for a while and would 
  like to reintroduce yourself um I would definitely invite you to 
  do so now by putting yourself on the queue.
Kimberly Linson:  All right hopefully that was a long enough 
  teacher pause uh I will next turn it over to announcements and 
  reminders does anyone have an announcement or a reminder for the 
  community that wants to share.
Kimberly Linson:  Okay and then uh 1 more housekeeping item 
  before we move on uh is just around work items does anyone have 
  anything uh they need to discuss around work items here in the 
  conversation.
Kimberly Linson:  All right then it is my pleasure to turn it 
  over to Simone in Elo to um did I say that right ELO.
Kimberly Linson:  Uh uh to to give us an update on VCU and we can 
  have a conversation around being in the education Community 
  around credentials.
Simone Ravaoli: 
  https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1lhv0n83G919ot-J2Xm-bwXC6P4TQZuXF8VZBMUdd9nA/edit?usp=sharing
Will Abramson:  Yeah yeah great it's kind of related I I just 
  wanted to like what did method if did method did methods are you 
  using and what criteria did you use to choose them.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Absolutely yeah so uh.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  This is a great question the answer will not 
  surprise you.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Uh so there's a specialty came up in the.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Jobs for the future foundations 
  interoperability plugfest which I think we've uh we may have 
  presented uh in the past to this group on the plugfest um those 
  of you who are new or haven't seen the presentation uh I highly 
  recommend it because it was a remarkable event.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  This is the only vertical that I know of that 
  brought together uh like 30 or so different implementers of 
  wallets credential issuers and then in later on credential 
  verifiers and actually made sure that they work together so a 
  credential issued from 1 issuer could be received and displayed 
  and requested by another wallet that is not of that vendor right 
  so like.
Dmitri Zagidulin:   Yes I've.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Basically we're all.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  All implementing the specifications but and 
  this probably would not surprise all of you that that doesn't 
  mean in interoperability.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Uh interoperability only happens when lots of 
  Dev teams stay up late for lots of weeks and actually make it 
  happen.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Uh so it was a remarkable experience but 
  getting back to dids so uh so we kept the spreadsheet of the 
  various Technologies apis and did methods used and so.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  The answer is exactly what you would expect uh 
  all the teams started with did Q.
Dmitri Zagidulin:   Because it's.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  The easiest 1 because it's self-contained and 
  so on uh most teams also added support for did web.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Uh there were a bunch of teams that did did 
  jwk which is uh another sort of serialization for Digi.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  He was a grab bag uh there was a couple of 
  sovereign based ones uh I vaguely recall checked was there uh in 
  a couple of other uh ledgers and blockchains.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Uh so for the most part we saw Vicki and did 
  Webb and did jwk and this was before a trusted did web method 
  came about I suspect highly suspect that if we had if we held the 
  blood Fest now we would see a lot more uh trusted did Webb or as 
  it has been renamed uh did Webb verifiable history okay so that's 
  it for this.
<simone_ravaioli> MC = MicroCredentials
<simone_ravaioli> DESM = Data Ecosystem Schema Mapper
<kerri_lemoie> There was a browser plugin submission at the 
  hackathon that we will be following up on. It made it possible 
  for a VC to be rendered & verified in a browser.
Kerri Lemoie:  Sure I don't have too much more to add than that 
  there were quite a few submissions um not as many that use the 
  standards as we had hoped so we're going to be doing some like 
  follow-up and maybe some a future I don't know other hackathon or 
  more to like get people engaged um.
Kerri Lemoie:  There was 1 very interesting submission which was 
  a and I'm sorry I don't have the link to it right here but I can 
  find it later for um a browser plug-in that could verify and 
  display a credential which um you know we were we were pretty 
  happy with that so um we're going to follow up on that 1 with the 
  the person who created it.
<ildiko_mazar> <3
Kerri Lemoie:  Um and then uh all of you see I do co-chairs you 
  just been doing really great job managing all of these issues and 
  content so I just sort of want to give you a shout out because we 
  have a lot going on in education right now um and there's a whole 
  lot of different angles to consider um different standards um the 
  multilingual credentials is a really kind of a hot topic for the 
  coming year and I also know like we I'll say a lot that we're 
  probably going to start looking into self Sovereign identity at 
  the DCC so we hope to bring that to VCU and start really working 
  on on the because obviously we're all very worried about privacy 
  of data and and controlling more of that as we start moving 
  forward with verifiable credentials so anyway I IO and 
  endometriosis Simone thank you for the great work you've been 
  doing all year we really appreciate you.
<dmitri_zagidulin> one second
<dmitri_zagidulin> audio problem I think
<dmitri_zagidulin> I can hear but can't speak
<dmitri_zagidulin> reloading
Kimberly Linson:  Is reloading and it appears we have somebody.
<simone_ravaioli> This is one of the Hackathon winner - the 
  browser extension https://devpost.com/software/crediview
Kimberly Linson:  Just got a typewriter going to.
<ildiko_mazar> Absolutely. Big shoes to fill :-) <3
Dmitri Zagidulin:  All right yes excellent yes um I I could hear 
  everybody really well but wasn't picking up my microphone.
Kerri Lemoie: :Heart: Thanks, Simone.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Uh so thank you so much uh K words yeah so the 
  other pro project uh that we think is really interesting and 
  relevant both to the education ecosystem and to the general 
  course are really favorite topic issuer and verifier registries.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  I I genuinely think for whatever side of 
  historical reasons the education space the vertical.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Kind of unique in in the space of verifying 
  credentials uh it seems like we're kind of a canary in the coal 
  mine in the sense that um there's been a lot of deployments and a 
  lot of implementations and so uh teams and education hit up 
  against problems that other verticals will have and will soon be 
  faced with uh so as soon as we had um educationals like diplomas 
  or student IDs or course credentials deployed to various wallets 
  the problem immediately came up.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  I have a credential assigned is digitally 
  signed but that digital signature is opaque it's an opaque random 
  string right even it did is opaque and so the wallet or the 
  verifier has to look it up somewhere on some list and that's the 
  issue of registry.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  So we had a couple of like early uh early 
  efforts and now credential engine uh as well as the mit's digital 
  credential Consortium and a number of other organizations.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Have gotten together and said okay uh this 
  this is a pain point this is a problem let's just study of the 
  existing.
Simone Ravaoli: 
  https://credentialengine.org/2024/09/04/issuer-registries-in-practice/
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Issue registry and verifying uh so let's do a 
  comparison of the features well and then let's pay back 
  implemented and run a mock registry for a handful of months and 
  then report back to the community so that's the process project 
  happening now in um we're in the middle of so uh we did an 
  evaluation of a number of credentials uh we're just about to 
  start development on 1 specifications uh we're going to go with 
  the the current front Ender is uh open ID Federation 
  specification uh but but again we're still under discussion uh 
  and planning phase but the reason I wanted to highlight this 
  project is every single 1 of you who has anything to do with um 
  verify because you're gonna talk about issue and verify register 
  when I'm verifying when I'm displaying things how do I identify 
  the digital signature of of this credential or any signed object 
  so keep an eye on that effort really interesting.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  The other the other item uh here under T3 
  Innovation Mark and HR open is so creation we're all education 
  credentials right again diplomas micro controls like individual 
  courses skill-based credentials very important topic in space.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  And of course what else is important to 
  education employment and resumes.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  So as uh as ildico and simony mentioned uh we 
  we've been doing a lot of Outreach and um interaction with the 
  standard bodies like 1te uh who who are doing the open badges uh 
  their fiber credential specification as HR open uh which is 
  exactly what it sounds like it's a another standards body that 
  develops uh human resources job applicant tracking and resume 
  standards.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Uh so we're we're sort of leasing with them 
  to.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  To say what sort of let's say resume features 
  we need from the education side uh what what we've learned right 
  because there there a an area of vertical that is fairly new to 
  the area of verifiable credentials so uh that there's a lot of uh 
  good knowledge transfer happening there 1 of the 1 of the real 
  grants in the area through the T3 foundation and the uh us 
  chamber of.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Been to create a couple of Open Source 
  applications I have this.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Are a patient that uh particularly allows 
  people to both multiple solar radical.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Into a big container credential on the link 
  link uh all of us in the community believed in the importance of 
  self issued credentials and of course both the challenge and the 
  opportunity will self issue.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Shows you they're not.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Issued by a recognized Authority which means 
  since the issuer is let's say unknown and untrusted you need to 
  look to other signals uh to provide any sort of value or quality 
  to the the credential and the main signals that we're looking to 
  is attached evidence and then is importantly recommendations 
  right so I can say.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  I know how to I don't know I can issue a 
  credential that that that asserts to that scale by itself is not 
  worth that much unless I provide links to evidence portfolio 
  projects like here are some sites that I.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Right and then and just as importantly I can I 
  can provide recommendations we are also uh verifiable credentials 
  issued by people in slightly more uh expertise and Authority 
  professors co-workers uh collaborators at a hackathon that sort 
  of thing right and so the link claims project is exploring how do 
  you compose smaller credentials uh by using uh by using links uh 
  and and and hashes liberally.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  How do you compare trusted graph if you will.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Uh and and experience you um project is also 
  uh is exploring again the area of RS and job applications of okay 
  so everybody has these PDF documents or documents that are their 
  resumes how do we go from that to verify the credentials.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  And 1 of the sort of hypothesis being explored 
  in the space is this notion of can we use LLS can we use large 
  model type tools to scan through.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Tax and pull out uh culture or possibly even 
  verifiable credentials so so that's something um also to keep an 
  eye on and then lrs is a uh a standard being developed by HR open 
  to specifically Express uh a resume.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  It for uh from items so uh over to you.
<ildiko_mazar> Demonstrated by this very meeting transcription 
  :-)
<harrison_tang> Yup
<harrison_tang> Yup, I agree with camera on, too.  But if 
  everyone turns on the camera, I am afraid that it would crash 
  Jitsi :)
<ildiko_mazar> Can you hear me?
<kimberly_wilson_linson> We cannot
<ildiko_mazar> :-(
Kimberly Linson:  I I was curious some money to put that out to 
  the the group at large and some of the folks that have been 
  around for for a long time I think you know the the original idea 
  is that you know we're committed to open source software and 
  jitsi is an open source um software and so like that was really 
  the reason for.
Kimberly Linson:  For for sticking with it for you know Manu has 
  has spent many a weekend like uh you know trying to fix it um but 
  this is a you know I didn't know this until today that that it 
  was it wouldn't um register on us speakers which is a really big 
  problem um I think defeats you know to me if I'm weighing our 
  commitment to open source and our commitment to to having as many 
  voices as the at the table as possible you know that having as 
  many voices is going to win so um for me but I I am curious um 
  you know I see a few folks who've been around in this community 
  for a long time who who may know more about.
Kimberly Linson:  And you know how we might make it work for us 
  or if we if we do need to consider alternatives.
<ildiko_mazar> Okay, so recently I discovered by accident that 
  I'm not the only one struggling to upload meeting minutes to 
  Github. Apart from the index.html taking ages to generate, 
  sometimes I still get 404 error messages when I try to view the 
  final published index.html content.
Kimberly Linson:  Anyone have any thoughts.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  And I think the implication I think the 
  implication here is that uh we in the VCI do our volunteering 
  ourselves as test subjects uh be happy trouts uh other 
  conferencing software and other transcription services and and 
  report back to you all uh how that has worked.
Kimberly Linson:  Be very helpful Harrison.
Harrison_Tang: Yeah I think we should give it a try I mean uh.
Harrison_Tang: What is due or Microsoft teams or Google Hangout 
  they'll have like transcription capabilities right so I think we 
  should really give it a try and then uh and go from there you 
  know.
Harrison_Tang: Yeah there's 2 main restrictions right like I like 
  questions from time to time and people have to rejoin and uh 
  sometimes that's once you crash the transcription um doesn't work 
  the follow-up transcriptions gone now there's all these different 
  issues so so yeah I I think uh using another software probably 
  makes more sense.
Kimberly Linson:  I'm glad you brought up to the idea of of 
  increasing engagement and cameras on I mean I know I never turned 
  mine on because I'm terrified of of of the the crashing.
Kimberly Linson:  Um but I also I also understand you know that 
  this is noune for a lot of people and I know sometimes I 
  sometimes I have certainly been eating my lunch during this 
  meeting so um you know that I I I liked how you you phrase that 
  Simone this idea of like how do we make it like that you can have 
  your camera on but it's okay if you don't that that to to sort of 
  increase that engagement it's a it's a really good question not 
  when I have an answer to but I'm I'm definitely going to be 
  thinking about it uh Muhammad.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Hi uh 1 of the biggest issues with how to 
  retrieve the same 1 that you guys are talking about with the 
  transcription at the traceability cohort we've had so many 
  problems we just turned off transcription and we ended up having 
  a person scribing the entire time and we've been doing that for 
  over a year.
<ildiko_mazar> :-O
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  And if you're volunteering to switch off of 
  I should say that would be wonderful um at least for us to know I 
  mean that work has concluded but for any future work I think I'm 
  a plus 1 for trying something different.
Kimberly Linson:  That is really interesting and and yeah I I.
Kimberly Linson:  I remember the days when we were doing 
  transcription as well Tall Ted I hope that.
TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com): Uh yeah 
  speaking is 1 of the old fogies who's been around far too long 
  um.
TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com): Definitely 
  terrible uh it's better than some things.
TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com): And it is 
  open source.
<ildiko_mazar> As a matter of fact we do have full audio scripts, 
  so we could just feed those to an Otter (or some similar 
  transcriber).
TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com): But there are 
  a lot of feelings in it like in most open source things.
TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com): The rough 
  edges only get sanded off if the right person feels the pain of 
  them and then is motivated to go fix them um.
TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com): Mostly cost 
  money.
TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com): At some 
  level.
TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com): 1 advantage 
  of being a w3c group is that I believe.
TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com): We can use 
  their uh.
TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com): Accounts 
  somehow um.
TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com): That cost 
  money but.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Oh that's really interesting we should look at 
  that.
<simone_ravaioli> W3C uses Zoom? and we use Jitsi..
TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com): Um right so 
  I'm in a bunch of community groups and most of them use the zoom 
  stuff.
<simone_ravaioli> ahaha
TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com): Um and that 
  is has been helpful.
TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com): Um 
  transcription itself is a money thing Zoom has it I don't know if 
  it's an add-on cost I don't know if it's available for use in in 
  most calls um.
TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com): There are 
  concerns on various fronts about recordings both voice and video 
  and even transcription people have privacy concerns.
TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com): Anyone who 
  raises those privacy concerns basically Trump's the rest of the 
  group in general.
<ildiko_mazar> :+1:
TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com): I find that 
  problematic I think that this is 1 of those things that the the 
  majority should actually rule and hopefully that majority is 
  willing to use the tools even if there is something of a privacy 
  risk because what we're doing is meant to be in public and in 
  View and.
TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com): You can hide 
  your face you can not speak and still listen and watch other 
  people and that's legitimate.
TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com): I think 
  that's most of what I had to say about this I'll come back.
<simone_ravaioli> the voice and video files are still recorded as 
  part of the transcription
Kimberly Linson:  Thank you I really appreciate that your 
  perspective.
Kimberly Linson:  Demetri were you trying to speak.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  I just wanted to say yeah thank you so much uh 
  salted for the that perspective we should definitely investigate 
  what our options are for W3 super structure uh whether we can use 
  and where Army transcription is part of that Zoom uh the other 
  thing that I would suggest is we looking to uh just take a glance 
  at the current crop of Open Source services like uh like the 
  centrally hosted jitsi and like big blue button uh as well as 
  whatever ITF you.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Uh worth comparing against uh w3c zoom and 
  then just picking 1 and then.
Kimberly Linson:  Well this was a really interesting discussion 
  it's been something that that we chairs have talked about 
  repeatedly and and it sounds like you all have been talking about 
  in BCE to you and um.
Kimberly Linson:  Um something we should consider do you have 
  something else to add.
TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com): Yeah I did 
  remember another piece um 1 aspect of all of these choices is.
TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com): Ones 
  operating system Andor Hardware needs to be in order to 
  participate um.
TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com): Currently I 
  have.
TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com): The the 4 
  major teleconference tools I have available uh jitsi I'm stuck on 
  a version several versions back uh for my local desktop client 
  because they're upgraded required and upgraded my operating 
  system which I cannot do for other reasons.
TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com): WebEx is 
  doing the same thing Zoom hasn't yet but they're threatening in 
  that direction quietly um 1 of the other ones teams uh I cannot 
  run the application I have to use this to the browser and that 
  support will go away soon.
TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com): All of these 
  tools have both a desktop version and a run it in the browser 
  version the run it in the browser version requires a version of 
  the browser.
TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com): Is tied to 
  that newer version of the operating system so it doesn't matter 
  if the if I switch from the desktop app that no longer supports 
  this old operating system.
TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com): Cannot run 
  the reasons enough browser to run the browser version.
TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com): It's all 
  tangled and twisted.
TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com): Is not 
  something that impacts most people in a a business environment or 
  even an education environment but there are certainly people who 
  try to participate in this sort of stuff who are not on The 
  Cutting Edge or even close to it and so.
TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com): Something to 
  watch out for is whether the choice of tool locks people out just 
  because of that requirement of updates.
<ildiko_mazar> :+1:
Kimberly Linson:  I think that needs to be our primary goal is 
  that again coming back to the purpose of all of these communities 
  is to get as many voices to the table as possible so um you know 
  whatever tool we use is is 1 that should be open no matter.
Kimberly Linson:  If you're International and you're trying to 
  have your transcription show or um if you have um you're on an 
  older browser and you want to be able to access so that's that's 
  good criteria I think to use as we look as we look forward um all 
  right well thank you that was a that was a great discussion it 
  wasn't so much about the topics that you are all going to cover 
  in 2025 which is interesting I think to just sort of highlight 
  maybe the pain that we've we've all experienced is is.
<ildiko_mazar> We do have a wish list, and we're willing to add 
  to it if there is interest
Kimberly Linson:  Is enough now that we really do need to to look 
  at Alternatives um but um I know that Simone and Leo and Demitri 
  would love to hear uh from you um if you want to send a message 
  to the list around what kinds of topics that they might want to 
  be uh be presenting in 2025 so thank you everybody have a great 
  rest of your day and we'll look forward to seeing you soon.
<harrison_tang> thank you, Simone, Ildiko, and Dmitri!!
<ildiko_mazar> Bye, have a great day
