Thanks to Kayode Ezike for scribing this week! The minutes
for this week's Credentials CG telecon are now available:

https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/2021-03-24 

Full text of the discussion follows for W3C archival purposes.
Audio from the meeting is available as well (link provided below).

----------------------------------------------------------------
Credentials CG Telecon Minutes for 2021-03-24

Agenda:
  https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-credentials/2021Mar/0122.html
Topics:
  1. Introduction & Reintroductions
  2. Announcements / Reminders
  3. Progress on Action Items
  4. Thoughtful Biometrics Report out
Organizer:
  Heather Vescent and Wayne Chang and Kim Hamilton Duffy
Scribe:
  Kayode Ezike
Present:
  Mike Prorock, Manu Sporny, Heather Vescent, Charles E. Lehner, 
  Dmitri Zagidulin, Erica Connell, Taylor Kendall, Kayode Ezike, 
  Markus Sabadello, Chris Winczewski, Ted Thibodeau, Ryan Grant, 
  Matthieu Bosquet, Brent Zundel, Adrian Gropper, Kaliya Young
Audio:
  https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/2021-03-24/audio.ogg

<econnell> present +
Heather Vescent:  Agenda -- report out on Thoughtful Biometrics 
  conference... overview of DID Candidate Recommendation, Community 
  discussion about Solid meetings. [scribe assist by Manu Sporny]
Heather Vescent: https://www.w3.org/community/credentials/join
Heather Vescent:  Reminder that this meeting is covered by our IP 
  Note -- it's free to join this group, but please sign up for W3C 
  Account to sign up for IPR agreement. [scribe assist by Manu 
  Sporny]
Heather Vescent:  Working with CCG 101 -- it's not clear who 
  needs to do what and when during sign up. [scribe assist by Manu 
  Sporny]
Heather Vescent:  All meeting recordings and transcriptions are 
  available on the website... also easy to create minutes. [scribe 
  assist by Manu Sporny]
Heather Vescent:  We could use some help with minute generation, 
  takes 5 minutes. [scribe assist by Manu Sporny]
Heather Vescent: http://irc.w3.org/?channels=ccg
Heather Vescent:  You can chat on IRC or Jitsi chat and it'll go 
  on the record. [scribe assist by Manu Sporny]
Heather Vescent:  If you want to add yourself to the queue - do 
  q+ or q+ (to say something) [scribe assist by Manu Sporny]
Heather Vescent:  To be included in the minutes, type present+ 
  [scribe assist by Manu Sporny]
Heather Vescent:  Scribe selection... do we have any volunteers 
  to scribe? It's fun. It's easy. All you have to do is the best 
  you can to type what people are saying. [scribe assist by Manu 
  Sporny]
Heather Vescent:  Any volunteers? [scribe assist by Manu Sporny]
Kayode Ezike is scribing.
Heather Vescent:  Let's do introductions

Topic: Introduction & Reintroductions

Matthieu Bosquet:  Worked at Highland and worked with some folks 
  who are here now
Julien: also from Highland and happy to be here
  ... working mostly with Blockcerts with Kim Duffy
John Callahan: CTO if Veridium and will excited to talk about the 
  Thoughtful Biometrics Workshop from a couple of weeks ago
Taylor Kendall:  Learning Economy foundation and have been diving 
  deep into the SSI space
  ... recently gave a useful SSI 101

Topic: Announcements / Reminders

Kaliya Young:  IIW is coming up on April 22
  ... there are opportunities for accessibility support if that 
  is a concern

Topic: Progress on Action Items

Heather Vescent: : 
  Https://github.com/w3c-ccg/community/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3A%22action%3A+review+next%22
Taylor Kendall: The post Heather referenced: 
  https://taykendesign.medium.com/identity-and-agency-2020-and-beyond-ee804a7e35c6
Heather Vescent:  We are having regular CCG 101 meetings at 
  Wednesdays at 2pm PT
  ... The group is putting together a presentation that will be 
  presented to the larger CCG
  ... a major goal for this presentation is for orientation for 
  newcomers to the space
  ... The group is avoiding firehose approach for better 
  onboarding experience
  ... effectiveness as a contributor behooves this kind of an 
  orientation
  ... some of the pioneers in this group can expect to be 
  contacted for interviews and knowledge discovery
Manu Sporny:  The larger group should also be contacted for 
  knowledge discovery
  ... please stay on me so that I can get you the information you 
  need
Heather Vescent:  Totally understand and respect time and I 
  propose that I put a calendar invite for you to join our next CCG 
  101 meeting
Kayode Ezike: Manu: +1
Heather Vescent:  It's easier to get feedback once there is 
  something to get feedback on
  ... trying to empower the folks in that team to feel presenting 
  material both to this team and their own communities
  ... giving ourselves 6 weeks until the presentation
  ... first presentation is slotted for May 4 at 2pm PT
  ... this is the baby step introduction orientation to the 
  community
Heather Vescent:  Next step on Solid collab
  ... would love feedback from community on next steps
  ... confidential storage group is potential hub for Solid 
  collab but cautious not to limit ourselves
Heather Vescent: Work Item: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/community/issues/185
  ... Issue 185: CHAPI Interoperability Test Suite
Manu Sporny:  Submitted this issue on behalf of ganache
  ... CHAPI this is the Credential Handler API
  ... the idea is to enable movement of credentials in the 
  browser
  ... test suite is useful for determining true interoperability
  ... came out of DHS SVIP
  ... idea is to bootstrap it via a neutral body but ultimate to 
  get it onto the standards track
Heather Vescent:  Last week was interop workshop hosted by DHS
  ... anyone wants to report back on that?
Markus Sabadello:  I was one of the participants in this plugfest
  ... goal is to the support startups to apply VC tech to real 
  world use cases
<bumblefudge> Transmure, Mesur.io, Mavennet, Spherity = SC cohort
  ... groups are working on supply chain and citizenship use case
<bumblefudge> Digital Bazaar, Mattr, DanubeTech, Securekey = 
  USCIS use cases
  ... this is the second installation of the program and the goal 
  is to demonstrate interoperability
Manu Sporny: The entire slide deck from the Interoperability 
  Showcase: 
  https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1MeeP7vDXb9CpSBfjTybYbo8qJfrrbrXCSJa0DklNe2k/edit?usp=sharing
  ... CHAPI was demonstrated using different implementations from 
  different vendors
  ... really demonstrated the power of our standards
  ... different days were dedicated to demonstrations of 
  interoperability and engagement of a broader audience as well as 
  business feasibility
Bumblefudge: the interop test suites and demonstrations are part 
  of a CCG work item and the CCG community is encouraged to audit 
  those repos and chime in where they see fit
<bumblefudge> (we need a good nickname for it, very hard to say 
  out loud)
<bumblefudge> Vuh-HAPI?
Heather Vescent:  TODO for future session is to provide intros to 
  some of these projects
<bumblefudge> nope
  ... if there are any any questions about getting involved with 
  this dissemination of knowledge, please get in touch with me!
<bumblefudge> /me you are at 1/10 the volume we're at
Adrian Gropper:  Great amount of work going on in SVIP and hard 
  to track what software libraries are available for use
  ... suggesting CCG item for registry-like wiki for tracking 
  available technical output from the interop work
<bumblefudge> There has been mention of linking to OS repos 
  directly from the VuhHAPI documentation of each Test Case
  ... example implementations and commercial implementations 
  could be better documented
<bumblefudge> i.e., links to what sample implementations or 
  libraries are available for revocation-list-2020, etc linked from 
  that test case
  ... would be great to know what it entails to get involved in 
  the work coming from SVIP
Heather Vescent:  Similar request came from developers who are 
  new to this community
  ... we are trying to figure out how to put together a solid set 
  of resources for new developers who are trying to get involved
Adrian Gropper:  More investment yields better advancement of our 
  ecosystem
Mike Prorock:  Agreed that there needs to be more transparency in 
  developer tooling
  ... also helps with security
Dmitri Zagidulin: Common like.. Javascript? :)
Markus Sabadello: There is also Java, which Danube Tech is using: 
  https://github.com/weboftrustinfo/ld-signatures-java, 
  https://github.com/danubetech/verifiable-credentials-java
Mike Prorock: +1 Markus
<heathervescent> lol. so true!
  ... aries and DIDKit are some of the existing tools for 
  developers to concretely use
Manu Sporny:  Some implementers are not aware of the complete lay 
  of the land
Mike Prorock: +1 Manu, tying this back into testing etc is a very 
  good thing
  ... we need some sort of registry to document this work
Kaliya Young:  I publish a weekly newsletter update with Info 
  Miner
  ... we are doing a survey with practitioners in the SSI 
  community to get a sense of how exactly they are using this 
  technology
Heather Vescent:  You can propose this a  work item
  ... this could be a great way for you to garner support from 
  the community
Bumblefudge: the test suite gives people something to link to to 
  demonstrate that we have implemented the spec in a testable 
  manner
  ... this test suite is in a way a self-governing registry
Heather Vescent:  Moving onto report of Thoughtful Biometrics 
  event

Topic: Thoughtful Biometrics Report out

Kaliya Young:  We hosted this event 3/8-3/12
  ... there were three days and three hours each of open space
  ... there was an opening and closing on each day so that each 
  day came out to 5 hours
  ... talked about SSI, deepfakes and biometrics, and other 
  relevant topics
John Callahan: it was a great event with 50+ 
  registrants/attendees
  ... we had a vast participation from people in technology, 
  civil liberties, and other domains
  ... group came to consensus that backend should be certified
  ... as there is a very siloed culture with these systems
  ... lots of discussion on liveness
  ... Stephanies Schuckers had a lot to share about this on 
  behalf of CITer
  ... Sunpreet Arora shared about birth registrations, as he has 
  done a lot of work on infant birth registrations and different 
  biometrics applications in that space
  ... this intersects with ID binding work that FIDO ID&V WG and 
  OpenID eKYC WG are working on
  ... There is a need for more open source tools for the 
  biometrics space
  ... Kim's work was referenced with respect to 
  selective/progressive disclosure
  ... There is a need for guidance at all stages of software 
  development
  ... PAID Framework: Privacy, Accessibility, Inclusion & 
  Diversity
  ... Patterns for ethical use were presented by Todd Gerhke 
  (ID2020)
  ... with PAID framework, we start with the human centric needs 
  before tackling technical challenges
Kaliya Young:  We have been using Medium as our blog hosting 
  site.
https://medium.com/thoughtful-biometrics/first-thoughtful-biometrics-workshop-3e7ca7229241
  ... we posted the entire agenda with all the topics and asked 
  at the end of the day what people got out of the conference
  ... we are open to questions if any
Markus Sabadello:  Thanks for the presentation. A few years ago, 
  what relationship do you see between DIDs and  biometrics?
John Callahan: Our blog covers how we can be thoughtful with 
  biometrics
<markus_sabadello> Wonderful, thank you!
  ... what does it take to incorporate biometrics into VCs
https://medium.com/thoughtful-biometrics/being-thoughtful-about-biometrics-1f28ac2a27d5
Adrian Gropper:  Following up on relationship between DIDs and 
  biometrics
  ... most templates in this space is proprietary
  ... how do we get around this by linking opaque hashes to human 
  readable references
John Callahan: There are biometric template storage formats that 
  are meant to be interoperable (NIST payloads)
  ... these are across modalities (face, voice, fingerprints, 
  etc.)
  ... these include raw images, processed images, and minutia
  ... most folks who are familiar with these templates referred 
  to these during our discussions
<heathervescent> Also special thank you to Kayode_Ezike for 
  scribing!
Heather Vescent:  That concludes our discussion
