[2021-03-24T17:01:13.702Z]	<mprorock>	present+
[2021-03-24T17:01:19.058Z]	<manu>	present+
[2021-03-24T17:01:27.127Z]	<heathervescent>	present+
[2021-03-24T17:01:34.147Z]	<cel>	present+
[2021-03-24T17:01:36.606Z]	<Jeff_Stephens>	present+
[2021-03-24T17:01:39.365Z]	<heathervescent>	Agenda: https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-credentials/2021Mar/0122.html
[2021-03-24T17:01:42.093Z]	<dmitriz>	present+
[2021-03-24T17:02:25.930Z]	<econnell>	present +
[2021-03-24T17:03:02.508Z]	<tayken>	present+
[2021-03-24T17:03:12.209Z]	<Bumblefudge>	present+
[2021-03-24T17:03:42.905Z]	<Kayode_Ezike>	present+
[2021-03-24T17:03:47.490Z]	<markus_sabadello>	present+
[2021-03-24T17:05:00.733Z]	<manu>	Heather: Agenda -- report out on Thoughtful Biometrics conference... overview of DID Candidate Recommendation, Community discussion about Solid meetings.
[2021-03-24T17:05:11.476Z]	<heathervescent>	https://www.w3.org/community/credentials/join
[2021-03-24T17:05:33.126Z]	<manu>	Heather: Reminder that this meeting is covered by our IP Note -- it's free to join this group, but please sign up for W3C Account to sign up for IPR agreement.
[2021-03-24T17:05:41.255Z]	<chriswinc>	present+
[2021-03-24T17:05:52.123Z]	<manu>	heathervescent: Working with CCG 101 -- it's not clear who needs to do what and when during sign up.
[2021-03-24T17:06:14.465Z]	<manu>	heathervescent: All meeting recordings and transcriptions are available on the website... also easy to create minutes.
[2021-03-24T17:06:34.186Z]	<manu>	heathervescent: We could use some help with minute generation, takes 5 minutes.
[2021-03-24T17:06:40.975Z]	<heathervescent>	http://irc.w3.org/?channels=ccg
[2021-03-24T17:06:59.717Z]	<manu>	heathervescent: You can chat on IRC or Jitsi chat and it'll go on the record.
[2021-03-24T17:07:17.822Z]	<manu>	heathervescent: if you want to add yourself to the queue - do q+ or q+ (to say something)
[2021-03-24T17:07:25.853Z]	<TallTed>	present+
[2021-03-24T17:07:26.185Z]	<rgrant>	present+
[2021-03-24T17:07:27.865Z]	<manu>	heathervescent: To be included in the minutes, type present+
[2021-03-24T17:07:34.900Z]	<matthieu>	present+
[2021-03-24T17:07:41.100Z]	<brent>	present+
[2021-03-24T17:08:08.931Z]	<manu>	heathervescent: scribe selection... do we have any volunteers to scribe? It's fun. It's easy. All you have to do is the best you can to type what people are saying.
[2021-03-24T17:08:24.095Z]	<manu>	heathervescent: Any volunteers?
[2021-03-24T17:08:46.183Z]	<heathervescent>	Scribe: Kayode_Ezike
[2021-03-24T17:10:13.426Z]	<Kayode_Ezike>	heathervescent: let's do introductions
[2021-03-24T17:10:15.212Z]	<heathervescent>	Topic: Introduction & Reintroductions
[2021-03-24T17:10:44.896Z]	<heathervescent>	ack matthieu
[2021-03-24T17:10:59.597Z]	<heathervescent>	ack matthieu
[2021-03-24T17:11:01.546Z]	<Kayode_Ezike>	matthieu: worked at Highland and worked with some folks who are here now
[2021-03-24T17:11:37.517Z]	<Kayode_Ezike>	julien: also from Highland and happy to be here
[2021-03-24T17:11:52.006Z]	<Kayode_Ezike>	... working mostly with Blockcerts with Kim Duffy
[2021-03-24T17:13:19.186Z]	<Kayode_Ezike>	John Callahan: CTO if Veridium and will excited to talk about the Thoughtful Biometrics Workshop from a couple of weeks ago
[2021-03-24T17:13:40.867Z]	<agropper>	present+
[2021-03-24T17:13:53.246Z]	<Kayode_Ezike>	tayken: Learning Economy foundation and have been diving deep into the SSI space
[2021-03-24T17:14:15.680Z]	<Kayode_Ezike>	... recently gave a useful SSI 101
[2021-03-24T17:14:30.366Z]	<heathervescent>	Topic: Announcements / Reminders
[2021-03-24T17:14:57.687Z]	<Kayode_Ezike>	IdentityWoman: IIW is coming up on April 22
[2021-03-24T17:15:34.589Z]	<Kayode_Ezike>	... there are opportunities for accessibility support if that is a concern
[2021-03-24T17:15:47.618Z]	<heathervescent>	Topic: Progress on Action Items
[2021-03-24T17:15:47.623Z]	<heathervescent>	: https://github.com/w3c-ccg/community/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3A%22action%3A+review+next%22
[2021-03-24T17:15:58.950Z]	<tayken>	The post Heather referenced: https://taykendesign.medium.com/identity-and-agency-2020-and-beyond-ee804a7e35c6
[2021-03-24T17:16:09.165Z]	<manu>	q+
[2021-03-24T17:16:30.653Z]	<Kayode_Ezike>	heathervescent: we are having regular CCG 101 meetings at Wednesdays at 2pm PT
[2021-03-24T17:16:59.608Z]	<Kayode_Ezike>	... The group is putting together a presentation that will be presented to the larger CCG
[2021-03-24T17:17:27.404Z]	<Kayode_Ezike>	... a major goal for this presentation is for orientation for newcomers to the space
[2021-03-24T17:18:02.511Z]	<Kayode_Ezike>	... The group is avoiding firehose approach for better onboarding experience
[2021-03-24T17:18:43.010Z]	<identitywoman>	present+
[2021-03-24T17:18:44.799Z]	<Kayode_Ezike>	... effectiveness as a contributor behooves this kind of an orientation
[2021-03-24T17:19:18.045Z]	<heathervescent>	q?
[2021-03-24T17:19:21.207Z]	<heathervescent>	ack manu
[2021-03-24T17:20:04.005Z]	<Kayode_Ezike>	... some of the pioneers in this group can expect to be contacted for interviews and knowledge discovery
[2021-03-24T17:20:48.935Z]	<Kayode_Ezike>	manu: the larger group should also be contacted for knowledge discovery
[2021-03-24T17:21:12.151Z]	<Kayode_Ezike>	... please stay on me so that I can get you the information you need
[2021-03-24T17:21:51.140Z]	<Kayode_Ezike>	heathervescent: totally understand and respect time and I propose that I put a calendar invite for you to join our next CCG 101 meeting
[2021-03-24T17:21:53.883Z]	<Kayode_Ezike>	manu: +1
[2021-03-24T17:22:21.777Z]	<Kayode_Ezike>	heathervescent: It's easier to get feedback once there is something to get feedback on
[2021-03-24T17:22:50.962Z]	<Kayode_Ezike>	... trying to empower the folks in that team to feel presenting material both to this team and their own communities
[2021-03-24T17:23:03.233Z]	<Kayode_Ezike>	... giving ourselves 6 weeks until the presentation
[2021-03-24T17:23:36.715Z]	<Kayode_Ezike>	... first presentation is slotted for May 4 at 2pm PT
[2021-03-24T17:23:53.491Z]	<Kayode_Ezike>	... this is the baby step introduction orientation to the community
[2021-03-24T17:23:54.889Z]	<heathervescent>	q?
[2021-03-24T17:24:16.123Z]	<Kayode_Ezike>	heathervescent: next step on Solid collab
[2021-03-24T17:24:31.643Z]	<Kayode_Ezike>	... would love feedback from community on next steps
[2021-03-24T17:25:05.306Z]	<Kayode_Ezike>	... confidential storage group is potential hub for Solid collab but cautious not to limit ourselves
[2021-03-24T17:25:26.247Z]	<heathervescent>	Work Item: https://github.com/w3c-ccg/community/issues/185
[2021-03-24T17:25:32.714Z]	<Kayode_Ezike>	... Issue 185: CHAPI Interoperability Test Suite
[2021-03-24T17:25:58.431Z]	<Kayode_Ezike>	manu: submitted this issue on behalf of ganache
[2021-03-24T17:26:18.182Z]	<Kayode_Ezike>	... CHAPI this is the Credential Handler API
[2021-03-24T17:26:43.880Z]	<Kayode_Ezike>	... the idea is to enable movement of credentials in the browser
[2021-03-24T17:27:11.951Z]	<Kayode_Ezike>	... test suite is useful for determining true interoperability
[2021-03-24T17:27:13.063Z]	<Phil.L>	present+
[2021-03-24T17:27:27.743Z]	<Kayode_Ezike>	... came out of DHS SVIP
[2021-03-24T17:27:36.255Z]	<heathervescent>	q?
[2021-03-24T17:28:03.713Z]	<Kayode_Ezike>	... idea is to bootstrap it via a neutral body but ultimate to get it onto the standards track
[2021-03-24T17:28:40.692Z]	<Kayode_Ezike>	heathervescent: last week was interop workshop hosted by DHS
[2021-03-24T17:28:43.939Z]	<markus_sabadello>	q+
[2021-03-24T17:28:51.273Z]	<Kayode_Ezike>	... anyone wants to report back on that?
[2021-03-24T17:28:55.784Z]	<heathervescent>	ack markus_sabadello
[2021-03-24T17:29:24.206Z]	<Kayode_Ezike>	markus_sabadello: I was one of the participants in this plugfest
[2021-03-24T17:29:51.788Z]	<Kayode_Ezike>	... goal is to the support startups to apply VC tech to real world use cases
[2021-03-24T17:29:56.806Z]	<Bumblefudge>	Transmure, Mesur.io, Mavennet, Spherity = SC cohort
[2021-03-24T17:30:12.427Z]	<Kayode_Ezike>	... groups are working on supply chain and citizenship use case
[2021-03-24T17:30:27.252Z]	<Bumblefudge>	Digital Bazaar, Mattr, DanubeTech, Securekey = USCIS use cases
[2021-03-24T17:30:35.322Z]	<Kayode_Ezike>	... this is the second installation of the program and the goal is to demonstrate interoperability
[2021-03-24T17:30:41.323Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	The entire slide deck from the Interoperability Showcase: https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1MeeP7vDXb9CpSBfjTybYbo8qJfrrbrXCSJa0DklNe2k/edit?usp=sharing
[2021-03-24T17:31:02.859Z]	<Kayode_Ezike>	... CHAPI was demonstrated using different implementations from different vendors
[2021-03-24T17:31:28.623Z]	<heathervescent>	q?
[2021-03-24T17:31:37.175Z]	<Kayode_Ezike>	... really demonstrated the power of our standards
[2021-03-24T17:32:40.865Z]	<Kayode_Ezike>	... different days were dedicated to demonstrations of interoperability and engagement of a broader audience as well as business feasibility
[2021-03-24T17:32:57.879Z]	<Bumblefudge>	q+
[2021-03-24T17:33:10.272Z]	<heathervescent>	ack Bumblefudge
[2021-03-24T17:33:47.151Z]	<Kayode_Ezike>	Bumblefudge: the interop test suites and demonstrations are part of a CCG work item and the CCG community is encouraged to audit those repos and chime in where they see fit
[2021-03-24T17:34:20.328Z]	<Adrian_Gropper>	q+
[2021-03-24T17:34:24.873Z]	<Bumblefudge>	(we need a good nickname for it, very hard to say out loud)
[2021-03-24T17:34:37.470Z]	<Bumblefudge>	Vuh-HAPI?
[2021-03-24T17:34:42.364Z]	<Kayode_Ezike>	heathervescent: TODO for future session is to provide intros to some of these projects
[2021-03-24T17:35:07.210Z]	<Bumblefudge>	nope
[2021-03-24T17:35:19.090Z]	<Kayode_Ezike>	... if there are any any questions about getting involved with this dissemination of knowledge, please get in touch with me!
[2021-03-24T17:35:24.007Z]	<Bumblefudge>	/me you are at 1/10 the volume we're at
[2021-03-24T17:35:38.874Z]	<heathervescent>	ack Adrian_Gropper
[2021-03-24T17:36:02.404Z]	<manu>	q+
[2021-03-24T17:36:04.257Z]	<Kayode_Ezike>	Adrian_Gropper: great amount of work going on in SVIP and hard to track what software libraries are available for use
[2021-03-24T17:36:26.545Z]	<mprorock>	q+
[2021-03-24T17:36:45.529Z]	<manu>	q-
[2021-03-24T17:36:55.296Z]	<Kayode_Ezike>	... suggesting CCG item for registry-like wiki for tracking available technical output from the interop work
[2021-03-24T17:36:59.571Z]	<Bumblefudge>	There has been mention of linking to OS repos directly from the VuhHAPI documentation of each Test Case
[2021-03-24T17:37:38.444Z]	<Kayode_Ezike>	... example implementations and commercial implementations could be better documented
[2021-03-24T17:37:48.609Z]	<Bumblefudge>	i.e., links to what sample implementations or libraries are available for revocation-list-2020, etc linked from that test case
[2021-03-24T17:37:57.276Z]	<Kayode_Ezike>	... would be great to know what it entails to get involved in the work coming from SVIP
[2021-03-24T17:38:22.960Z]	<Kayode_Ezike>	heathervescent: similar request came from developers who are new to this community
[2021-03-24T17:38:56.961Z]	<heathervescent>	q?
[2021-03-24T17:39:23.254Z]	<Kayode_Ezike>	... we are trying to figure out how to put together a solid set of resources for new developers who are trying to get involved
[2021-03-24T17:39:29.093Z]	<heathervescent>	ack mprorock
[2021-03-24T17:39:57.655Z]	<Kayode_Ezike>	Adrian_Gropper: more investment yields better advancement of our ecosystem
[2021-03-24T17:40:55.038Z]	<Kayode_Ezike>	mprorock: agreed that there needs to be more transparency in developer tooling
[2021-03-24T17:41:01.299Z]	<Kayode_Ezike>	... also helps with security
[2021-03-24T17:41:07.162Z]	<dmitriz>	common like.. Javascript? :)
[2021-03-24T17:41:33.231Z]	<manu>	q+
[2021-03-24T17:41:36.358Z]	<markus_sabadello>	There is also Java, which Danube Tech is using: https://github.com/weboftrustinfo/ld-signatures-java, https://github.com/danubetech/verifiable-credentials-java
[2021-03-24T17:41:43.988Z]	<heathervescent>	ack manu
[2021-03-24T17:41:49.015Z]	<mprorock>	+1 markus
[2021-03-24T17:41:56.497Z]	<heathervescent>	lol. so true!
[2021-03-24T17:42:00.685Z]	<Kayode_Ezike>	... aries and DIDKit are some of the existing tools for developers to concretely use
[2021-03-24T17:42:33.320Z]	<Kayode_Ezike>	manu: some implementers are not aware of the complete lay of the land
[2021-03-24T17:42:54.148Z]	<mprorock>	+1 manu, tying this back into testing etc is a very good thing
[2021-03-24T17:42:55.740Z]	<Kayode_Ezike>	... we need some sort of registry to document this work
[2021-03-24T17:43:06.240Z]	<heathervescent>	ack IdentityWoman
[2021-03-24T17:43:12.558Z]	<Kayode_Ezike>	IdentityWoman: I publish a weekly newsletter update with Info Miner
[2021-03-24T17:43:44.463Z]	<Bumblefudge>	q+
[2021-03-24T17:43:46.680Z]	<Kayode_Ezike>	... we are doing a survey with practitioners in the SSI community to get a sense of how exactly they are using this technology
[2021-03-24T17:44:01.528Z]	<Kayode_Ezike>	heathervescent: you can propose this a  work item
[2021-03-24T17:44:25.790Z]	<heathervescent>	ack Bumblefudge
[2021-03-24T17:44:39.141Z]	<Kayode_Ezike>	... this could be a great way for you to garner support from the community
[2021-03-24T17:45:10.524Z]	<Kayode_Ezike>	Bumblefudge: the test suite gives people something to link to to demonstrate that we have implemented the spec in a testable manner
[2021-03-24T17:45:25.383Z]	<mprorock>	q+
[2021-03-24T17:45:36.543Z]	<mprorock>	q-
[2021-03-24T17:45:40.607Z]	<Kayode_Ezike>	... this test suite is in a way a self-governing registry
[2021-03-24T17:46:13.167Z]	<Kayode_Ezike>	heathervescent: moving onto report of Thoughtful Biometrics event
[2021-03-24T17:46:13.762Z]	<heathervescent>	Topic: Thoughtful Biometrics Report out
[2021-03-24T17:46:34.750Z]	<Kayode_Ezike>	IdentityWoman: we hosted this event 3/8-3/12
[2021-03-24T17:46:52.920Z]	<Kayode_Ezike>	... there were three days and three hours each of open space
[2021-03-24T17:47:16.049Z]	<Kayode_Ezike>	... there was an opening and closing on each day so that each day came out to 5 hours
[2021-03-24T17:47:44.304Z]	<Kayode_Ezike>	... talked about SSI, deepfakes and biometrics, and other relevant topics
[2021-03-24T17:48:34.215Z]	<Kayode_Ezike>	John Callahan: it was a great event with 50+ registrants/attendees
[2021-03-24T17:49:30.538Z]	<Kayode_Ezike>	... we had a vast participation from people in technology, civil liberties, and other domains
[2021-03-24T17:50:04.450Z]	<Kayode_Ezike>	... group came to consensus that backend should be certified
[2021-03-24T17:50:24.980Z]	<Kayode_Ezike>	... as there is a very siloed culture with these systems
[2021-03-24T17:50:30.689Z]	<Kayode_Ezike>	... lots of discussion on liveness
[2021-03-24T17:51:06.051Z]	<Kayode_Ezike>	... Stephanies Schuckers had a lot to share about this on behalf of CITer
[2021-03-24T17:51:59.041Z]	<Kayode_Ezike>	... Sunpreet Arora shared about birth registrations, as he has done a lot of work on infant birth registrations and different biometrics applications in that space
[2021-03-24T17:52:26.811Z]	<Kayode_Ezike>	... this intersects with ID binding work that FIDO ID&V WG and OpenID eKYC WG are working on
[2021-03-24T17:52:46.605Z]	<Kayode_Ezike>	... There is a need for more open source tools for the biometrics space
[2021-03-24T17:53:16.819Z]	<Kayode_Ezike>	... Kim's work was referenced with respect to selective/progressive disclosure
[2021-03-24T17:53:39.339Z]	<Kayode_Ezike>	... There is a need for guidance at all stages of software development
[2021-03-24T17:54:11.511Z]	<Kayode_Ezike>	... PAID Framework: Privacy, Accessibility, Inclusion & Diversity
[2021-03-24T17:54:54.435Z]	<Kayode_Ezike>	... Patterns for ethical use were presented by Todd Gerhke (ID2020)
[2021-03-24T17:55:43.402Z]	<Kayode_Ezike>	... with PAID framework, we start with the human centric needs before tackling technical challenges
[2021-03-24T17:56:04.865Z]	<Kayode_Ezike>	IdentityWoman: We have been using Medium as our blog hosting site.
[2021-03-24T17:56:18.434Z]	<John_"Jack"_Callahan>	https://medium.com/thoughtful-biometrics/first-thoughtful-biometrics-workshop-3e7ca7229241
[2021-03-24T17:56:35.263Z]	<Kayode_Ezike>	... we posted the entire agenda with all the topics and asked at the end of the day what people got out of the conference
[2021-03-24T17:56:38.959Z]	<heathervescent>	q?
[2021-03-24T17:56:41.936Z]	<markus_sabadello>	q+
[2021-03-24T17:56:47.180Z]	<Kayode_Ezike>	... we are open to questions if any
[2021-03-24T17:56:56.559Z]	<heathervescent>	ack markus_sabadello
[2021-03-24T17:57:10.254Z]	<agropper>	q+
[2021-03-24T17:57:44.582Z]	<Kayode_Ezike>	markus_sabadello: Thanks for the presentation. A few years ago, what relationship do you see between DIDs and  biometrics?
[2021-03-24T17:58:34.823Z]	<Kayode_Ezike>	John Callahan: Our blog covers how we can be thoughtful with biometrics
[2021-03-24T17:59:13.504Z]	<markus_sabadello>	Wonderful, thank you!
[2021-03-24T17:59:16.293Z]	<Kayode_Ezike>	... what does it take to incorporate biometrics into VCs
[2021-03-24T17:59:26.259Z]	<heathervescent>	ack agropper
[2021-03-24T17:59:33.623Z]	<John_"Jack"_Callahan>	https://medium.com/thoughtful-biometrics/being-thoughtful-about-biometrics-1f28ac2a27d5
[2021-03-24T17:59:43.412Z]	<Kayode_Ezike>	agropper: following up on relationship between DIDs and biometrics
[2021-03-24T18:00:07.869Z]	<Kayode_Ezike>	... most templates in this space is proprietary
[2021-03-24T18:00:41.306Z]	<Kayode_Ezike>	... how do we get around this by linking opaque hashes to human readable references
[2021-03-24T18:01:20.037Z]	<Kayode_Ezike>	John Callahan: There are biometric template storage formats that are meant to be interoperable (NIST payloads)
[2021-03-24T18:01:37.572Z]	<Kayode_Ezike>	... these are across modalities (face, voice, fingerprints, etc.)
[2021-03-24T18:02:02.105Z]	<Kayode_Ezike>	... these include raw images, processed images, and minutia
[2021-03-24T18:02:27.535Z]	<Kayode_Ezike>	... most folks who are familiar with these templates referred to these during our discussions
[2021-03-24T18:03:09.779Z]	<heathervescent>	Also special thank you to Kayode_Ezike for scribing!
[2021-03-24T18:03:19.344Z]	<Kayode_Ezike>	heathervescent: that concludes our discussion
