[Tue 11:03:58] <NateOtto>	scribe: NateOtto
[Tue 11:04:20] <manu>	Agenda: https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-credentials/2015May/0003.html
[Tue 11:04:21] <NateOtto>	manu: Let's get the administrivia out of the way
[Tue 11:04:41] <NateOtto>	manu: We skipped last week, because all were so busy, but we have a number of things to get up to speed with this week.
[Tue 11:05:45] <NateOtto>	manu: Update on Open Badges release, Groningen Declaration Meeting, WebAppSec API update, Gates Foundation released Level 1 project which touches credentials stuff a bit. Credentials WG charter will be discussed in NYC -- it's on the agenda; Next steps: Selecting a new chair for the group to lead us into the WG work, figuring out priorities for the next few weeks.
[Tue 11:05:51] <NateOtto>	manu: Any other updates to agenda?
[Tue 11:06:10] <manu>	Topic: Introduction to Richard Varn
[Tue 11:06:33] <NateOtto>	Richard: I'm a distinguished presidential appointee, leading the credentials initiative for ETS
[Tue 11:07:31] <NateOtto>	Richard: Has been a legislator, CIO for a state, city, federal projects, and a university, and has worked in his own consulting practice. IT development projects for 35 years. Intersection of policy, law, technologies. On credentials, has been working on how credentials break things apart.
[Tue 11:07:36] <voip-cr>	16092160944 [SIP/69.71.222.196-0000017e] has joined the conference.
[Tue 11:08:26] <NateOtto>	manu: We're hoping over the next couple weeks to bring Richard up to speed in the group and get him prepped so that when the Credentials WG is set up, he could assume the role of chairing that group, along with a co-chair TBD
[Tue 11:08:46] <NateOtto>	manu: Richard has a long history of work in the credentials space.
[Tue 11:08:46] <manu>	voip: 17e is Laura
[Tue 11:08:47] <voip-cr>	Associated Laura with SIP/69.71.222.196-0000017e.
[Tue 11:08:55] <bsletten>	"I was a legislator" = 11 years as a Senator! Wow. Welcome, Richard.
[Tue 11:09:24] <NateOtto>	manu: Richard, who you are most likely to be working with closely is gkellogg -- in the role of W3C staff contact.
[Tue 11:09:31] *	gkellogg hi Richard!
[Tue 11:09:36] <NateOtto>	manu: NateOtto from Concentric Sky, Badge Alliance
[Tue 11:09:58] <NateOtto>	manu: bsletten long time Linked Data/ REST expert, who speaks to thousands upon thousands of developers each year
[Tue 11:10:08] <NateOtto>	manu: any questions for Richard?
[Tue 11:10:18] <manu>	Topic: Open Badges 1.1 Release
[Tue 11:10:20] <manu>	scribe: manu
[Tue 11:10:32] <NateOtto>	http://openbadgespec.org/history/1.1.html
[Tue 11:11:04] <manu>	Nate: Here's a quick rundown of the 1.1 release - we've adapted open badges to be a Linked Data format in JSON-LD - w/o losing backwards compat for 1.0 - people can start issuing open badges as Linked Data credentials.
[Tue 11:11:23] <voip-cr>	16617480240 [SIP/69.71.222.196-0000017f] has joined the conference.
[Tue 11:11:36] *	kerrilemoie (46bcb31d@gateway/web/freenode/ip.70.188.179.29) has joined #credentials
[Tue 11:11:37] <manu>	Nate: As this group moves forward, Badge Alliance wants to stay aligned and work on a 2.0 credential - may break backwards compat to align credentials with this group.
[Tue 11:11:44] <manu>	voip: 17f is Kerri
[Tue 11:11:44] <voip-cr>	Associated Kerri with SIP/69.71.222.196-0000017f.
[Tue 11:12:04] <manu>	Nate: We're looking into important features in badging space - interested in issuing Linked Data badges.
[Tue 11:12:27] <manu>	Brian: Have you had feedback yet on the changes? Has the community shown interest/concerns?
[Tue 11:12:50] <manu>	Nate: The process of moving to 1.1 was long - started investigating in early June of last year - talked to issuer platforms, users, foundations, funders about what they needed.
[Tue 11:13:15] <manu>	Nate: Also talked to Linked Data experts in this group - not much since Friday, but hoping that lots of devs that are involved will start building it into their platform soon.
[Tue 11:13:47] <manu>	Nate: Concentric Sky is going to be releasing an issuing platform that will be supporting Linked Data features - reference implementation of 1.1 - Kerri and I are available for those that want to ask questions state concerns.
[Tue 11:14:07] <manu>	Brian: I speak to developers about this stuff all the time - interested in seeing how devs react. This is now public?
[Tue 11:14:39] <manu>	Nate: Yes, the announcement is public. Mozilla runs the most important badge service platform - badge validator that's important - they'll update to 1.1 in near future as well as several other issuing platforms. Will keep reporting back.
[Tue 11:14:50] <manu>	Nate: Hoping to show off cool new features wrt. Linked Data that we're going to offer.
[Tue 11:15:22] <manu>	Manu: Link to OpenBadges is HTTP vs HTTPS - "http://w3id.org/openbadges/v1"
[Tue 11:17:11] <manu>	Manu explains why HTTPS is important to prevent man-in-the-middle attacks.
[Tue 11:15:55] <NateOtto>	Oh, jeez! I thought you said ACDPS whatever that might be.
[Tue 11:16:20] <NateOtto>	It should be HTTPS, and if is there is a problem with the docs, they will be updated this week
[Tue 11:16:49] <NateOtto>	SSL is live for hosting the full context through the w3id redirect all the way to our server.
[Tue 11:17:46] <manu>	Manu: Any issues w/ the new context?
[Tue 11:17:57] <manu>	Nate: No problems yet - CORS is active - json-ld.org playground works
[Tue 11:18:10] <manu>	Nate: Dave Longley was helpful in ironing out last minute quirks.
[Tue 11:19:26] <manu>	Topic: 2015 Groningen Declaration Meeting
[Tue 11:19:39] <manu>	scribe: NateOtto
[Tue 11:19:36] <manu>	This meeting is happening now: http://gd.warpnet.nl/2015-groningen-declaration-meeting
[Tue 11:19:42] <NateOtto>	manu: I always have a hard time saying that word
[Tue 11:20:17] <NateOtto>	manu: Right now is the Groningen Declaration meeting. This is the EU's initiative to do portable credentials. Sunny Lee is there representing Badge Alliance, and Eric Korb is there representing Accreditrust. Both of them are representing the Credentials CG work.
[Tue 11:20:38] <NateOtto>	manu: The Groningen group is essentially trying to do the same work we are trying to do in the education space.
[Tue 11:20:48] <NateOtto>	manu: this group seems to be made up of many IT folk
[Tue 11:21:07] <NateOtto>	manu: We are working on pushing them to use open standards
[Tue 11:21:23] <NateOtto>	manu: I'm sure we'll get an update from Sunny and Eric when they get back.
[Tue 11:21:24] <manu>	Topic: WebAppSec Credential Management API Status Update
[Tue 11:21:29] <manu>	https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-webappsec/2015Apr/0097.html
[Tue 11:21:59] <NateOtto>	manu: WebAppSec group at W3C published something they were calling a Credentials Managment API. It is really a password management API, in the sense that we understand credentials.
[Tue 11:22:33] <NateOtto>	manu: We objected to it being published in its original form, had a discussion with the chairs and editors of that group to ensure they at least put in reference to our work; they did, and we took our objection out of the way.
[Tue 11:22:49] <NateOtto>	manu: What they are trying to do is store and retrieve credentials in ther API
[Tue 11:23:04] <NateOtto>	manu: The chair of the group is on the Google Chrome team, and another representative works for Mozilla.
[Tue 11:23:59] <NateOtto>	manu: We're trying to fast track our credentials through this other group. If we can get them to extend their API in a fairly trivial way, it would mean that credentials could become a part of core browsers, and 1-1.75B people could get access to credentials immediately. This is 3 years before we thought this would happen.
[Tue 11:24:34] <NateOtto>	manu: But, it means we have a lot of quick work to do. dlongley and I need to sit down and propose an API modification to them. I know they are willing to listen, we don't know how much they are willing to change the API.
[Tue 11:25:14] <NateOtto>	manu: The biggest issue with the currently proposed API is that it has a belief that cross-origin credentials is not a design goal for the spec that they're working on. (Which means that the only crednetials that matter to them are the ones issued to you by the site you're viewing)
[Tue 11:25:29] <NateOtto>	manu: (You couldn't have Amazon issue you a crednetial and then use it on another site)
[Tue 11:26:11] <NateOtto>	manu: For educational credentials, for example, you need cross-origin credentials. This group, the Credentials CG, is interested in cross-origin credentials. (For example, you get a credential from Harvard and use it to apply to a different grad school)
[Tue 11:26:44] <NateOtto>	manu: Because this philosophical disctintion was rejected, it is unlikely that WebAppSec will be interested
[Tue 11:26:56] <NateOtto>	manu: We'll have to have this discussion with WebAppSec at some point.
[Tue 11:28:13] <manu>	Nate: Quick technical clarification - in how you and Dave are imagining a cross-origin API - when a website requests a generic credential - then user assents to send the college degree over from univ. - requests credential from credential vault - does credential vault transmit directly to website?
[Tue 11:30:25] <bsletten>	scribe: bsletten
[Tue 11:30:27] <manu>	Topic: Level One Project
[Tue 11:30:36] <manu>	https://leveloneproject.org/videos/overview/
[Tue 11:31:13] <bsletten>	manu: This is the Level One project just announced by B&MGF to help 1billion+ people world wide who don't have access to banking infrastructure (savings account, checking accounts, etc.)
[Tue 11:31:40] <bsletten>	manu: Credentialing is crucial for the poor to assist with Know Your Customer (KYC) initiatives at banks.
[Tue 11:32:26] <bsletten>	manu: People must be able to walk into banks, but if there is no nearby bank, chances are there won't be, so they remain cut off for loans, savings, etc.
[Tue 11:33:48] *	NateOtto_ (~textual@c-71-237-170-49.hsd1.or.comcast.net) has joined #credentials
[Tue 11:33:49] *	NateOtto has quit (Read error: Connection reset by peer)
[Tue 11:34:05] <bsletten>	manu: Meeting I had with them (B&MGF) included people from LibreOffice, Google Summer of Code, Xen Hypervisor, etc. looking for open source solutions to this need. There is also overlap with the educational goals of the B&MGF.
[Tue 11:34:22] <bsletten>	manu: Mobile phone is the key technology to enabling these tools.
[Tue 11:34:26] <bsletten>	scribe: NateOtto
[Tue 11:34:41] <NateOtto_>	manu: The idea is to try to make this happen, through mobile phones
[Tue 11:34:47] *	NateOtto_ is now known as NateOtto
[Tue 11:35:09] <NateOtto>	manu: This group cares about this, because the way that a lot of these credentials will be issued is through the mobile phone sellers
[Tue 11:35:27] <NateOtto>	manu: This would be like one stall in a market, where the seller can take a thumbprint and issue the credential
[Tue 11:35:40] <NateOtto>	manu: Any questions on Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation Level One Project?
[Tue 11:35:48] <NateOtto>	Q: What's the status?
[Tue 11:36:15] <NateOtto>	manu: The status is that they're interested in all these things, and have just launched it out of stealth mode. They brought us in for a quick sanity check right before launch.
[Tue 11:36:29] <NateOtto>	manu: Next steps: they're probably going to set up a foundation to take care of the technical aspects of it
[Tue 11:37:01] <NateOtto>	manu: Costa (sp?) is connected with us. He created the Swiss network that clears millions of transactions a month. Now he's trying to solve a different sort of payment routing problem.
[Tue 11:37:20] <NateOtto>	manu: We are currently trying to work with them to see how W3C and Gates Foundation can work more closely together.
[Tue 11:37:31] <NateOtto>	manu: US Fed Faster Payments task force as well
[Tue 11:38:00] <NateOtto>	manu: That collaboration will definitely impact the work that we're doing here. It will impact the technology we have to create in v1 of credentials, as well as the use cases and requirements.
[Tue 11:38:16] <manu>	Topic: Credentials WG Charter on Web Payments Agenda
[Tue 11:38:38] <manu>	https://www.w3.org/Payments/IG/wiki/Main_Page/FTF_June2015#Agenda_notes
[Tue 11:39:03] <NateOtto>	manu: We've been negotiating a place for the Credentials WG Charter (which was created in this group as a proposed charter to create an official WG). We have around 2hrs of official agenda discussion time on the Web Payments face2face in NY next month.
[Tue 11:39:29] <NateOtto>	manu: There is room for non-w3c members to join on the last day, but they are pretty much booked solid.
[Tue 11:39:57] <NateOtto>	manu: This is important for us, because the Web Payments group is the one that's going to bat for us to support our efforts to become an official WG.
[Tue 11:39:59] <manu>	https://docs.google.com/document/d/1xfdzFahQpaQKGL4aOvePlIdsJO6Q5OJkPgSIxtUx9Vc/edit
[Tue 11:41:05] <NateOtto>	manu: Make sure you take a very careful look at that charter, because it's what's going up in front of that membership in June. They'll hack at it a bit, then send it to us for approval. Then it will go up for a general W3C membership vote. We must get a minimum of 5% of that membership to support us, we're aiming for more like 15%.
[Tue 11:41:22] <NateOtto>	manu: By June/July/August, recruiting should be wrapping up
[Tue 11:41:42] <NateOtto>	Richard: That's a 2 day meeting. When will we know what part of the meeting we're in?
[Tue 11:42:20] <NateOtto>	manu: I imagine it will be in the first day, but not confirmed. The order of the agenda is in order that people want to hit things, and we currently appear early, but they may reorganize it in the next week or two.
[Tue 11:43:41] <NateOtto>	manu: gkellogg, I don't think we're going to try to get you out there for this one, because it'll only be 1-2 hrs, but... backing up: The Charter will be reviewed and refined, then it will go up for a vote around September. If the charter is approved, we need to have ~3 telecons between then and the Face to Face in Sapporo in October. We're hoping to have a foundation set up with funding to make sure you can travel, gkellogg
[Tue 11:44:14] <NateOtto>	gkellogg: If it makes sense for me to be on an audio link for the Web Payments face2face, I could do that. manu: We'll see and will let you know.
[Tue 11:44:27] <NateOtto>	manu: any Qs?
[Tue 11:45:41] <NateOtto>	manu: One last thing: the assumption behind the creation of the working group is that we have enough organizations to actively participate in the work. We have the level of activity that we need for active participation to transition to a WG, but we also need a larger number of organizations who will pledge to join W3C and support the work, so that we can convince W3C this is ready for WG level instead of Interest Group
[Tue 11:46:11] <NateOtto>	manu: We have to get these vision documents prepped, so that when we go out to recruit organizations to join W3C, and recruit support among W3C membership, that they will be aligned with what we want to happen.
[Tue 11:46:43] <manu>	Topic: Next Steps
[Tue 11:46:49] <NateOtto>	manu: If a large org W3C member jumps in and says "actually we want something else for crednetials", that could derail the work (and would be worse without good support behind us from our recruiting efforts.
[Tue 11:47:58] <NateOtto>	manu: As I said when we started this group, I did not intend to be running the calls for this long. We need folks from larger organizations to step in to lead the work. We have an elections cycle. The current person who's running the group steps down and calls for elections. People put their names into the ring, we vote, and a new chair takes over.
[Tue 11:48:55] <NateOtto>	manu: Hopefully, having heard Richard's background, you agree that he would be a good fit. And he's interested!
[Tue 11:49:17] <NateOtto>	Richard: A contact for the credentialing (badges) work at Pearson is Peter Janzow.
[Tue 11:50:07] *	gkellogg probably shouldnâ€™t minute contact info
[Tue 11:50:12] <NateOtto>	manu: I will take an action to contact Peter
[Tue 11:50:28] <manu>	ACTION: Manu to contact Peter Janzow at Pearson about co-chairing W3C Credentials Working Group.
[Tue 11:51:03] <NateOtto>	manu: As a reminder, just because a group elects a set of chairs, that doesn't mean the W3C won't step in and make a different recommendation/decision
[Tue 11:51:12] <NateOtto>	manu: but that would be rare
[Tue 11:51:20] <NateOtto>	manu: Next: the priorities for the next few weeks.
[Tue 11:51:30] <NateOtto>	manu: 1) We need to get the use cases document into better shape
[Tue 11:51:42] <NateOtto>	manu: 2) The executive summary is in good shape, but please take a look at it
[Tue 11:52:31] <NateOtto>	manu: the use cases doc is the one where we need the most work right now. We also need to create the support questionaires so we can ask orgs to take a look at the executive summary and let us know if they are going to vote in favor of the work.
[Tue 11:52:43] <NateOtto>	manu: Q: are there any other work items that people can think of?
[Tue 11:53:03] <NateOtto>	bsletten: You, Sunny, Nate and I were going to think of parallelizing the work on the use cases. The meeting never happened.
[Tue 11:53:18] <kerrilemoie>	I can join the use cases meeting as well.
[Tue 11:53:42] <NateOtto>	bsletten: "any time after next Tuesday would work for me"
[Tue 11:54:13] <NateOtto>	manu: We'll all take a pass through the use cases doc this week, come up with some ideas on parallelizing it, have a discussion about it next week, and then move forward
[Tue 11:54:25] <NateOtto>	manu: Anything else we should be working on for the next month?
[Tue 11:54:30] <NateOtto>	manu: I think that's it for the call today.
[Tue 11:54:48] <voip-cr>	Brian Sletten [SIP/sip2sip.info-0000017a] has left the conference.
[Tue 11:54:48] <voip-cr>	Manu Sporny [SIP/6000-00000177] has left the conference.
[Tue 11:54:48] <voip-cr>	Gregg Kellogg [SIP/sip2sip.info-0000017c] has left the conference.
[Tue 11:54:48] <voip-cr>	Richard [SIP/69.71.222.196-00000179] has left the conference.
[Tue 11:54:48] <NateOtto>	manu: Thanks everyone for the call this week. Same bat time, same bat channel next week.
[Tue 11:54:48] <NateOtto>	Present+ Laura, dlehn
[Tue 11:54:49] <voip-cr>	Laura [SIP/69.71.222.196-0000017e] has left the conference.
[Tue 11:54:50] <voip-cr>	dlehn [SIP/71.197.0.193-00000178] has left the conference.
[Tue 11:54:52] <voip-cr>	Kerri [SIP/69.71.222.196-0000017f] has left the conference.
[Tue 11:54:58] <voip-cr>	NateOtto [SIP/69.71.222.196-0000017b] has left the conference.
[Tue 11:54:58] <voip-cr>	No one is on the conference bridge.
[Tue 11:54:58] <voip-cr>	Shutting down and leaving...
