Thanks to Peter Mackinnon for scribing this week! The minutes
for this week's Credentials CG telecon are now available:

https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/2021-05-04 

Full text of the discussion follows for W3C archival purposes.
Audio from the meeting is available as well (link provided below).

----------------------------------------------------------------
Credentials CG Telecon Minutes for 2021-05-04

Agenda:
  https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-credentials/2021Apr/0185.html
Organizer:
  Heather Vescent and Wayne Chang and Kim Hamilton Duffy
Scribe:
  Peter Mackinnon
Present:
  Heather Vescent, Peter Mackinnon, Mike Prorock, Charles E. 
  Lehner, Juan Caballero, Ryan Grant, Chris Winczewski, Dmitri 
  Zagidulin, Manu Sporny, Mahmoud Alkhraishi, Ted Thibodeau, Jeff 
  Stephens, Matthieu Coll√©, Erica Connell, Orie Steele, Taylor 
  Kendall, Kayode Ezike, Kim Hamilton Duffy, Kerri Lemoie
Audio:
  https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/2021-05-04/audio.ogg

<heathervescent> Any volunteers to scribe?
<pete_m> i can scribe
Peter Mackinnon is scribing.
<juan_caballero> thx pete_M !
Heather Vescent: https://www.w3.org/community/credentials/join
  ... anyone can participate with these calls, CCG members for 
  serious contributions
Heather Vescent:  Topic: IP Note
Heather Vescent: Meeting minutes: 
  https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/
  ... all these minutes are archived. This is the standard CCG 
  minutes. This meeting uses IRC/Jitsi for chat and minutes. Please 
  type present+ to be considered present, to get on the queue 
  please type q+
  ... this meeting is voice so off topic comments can be deleted. 
  Thank you to Pete for scribing
Heather Vescent:  Topic: Intro / Re-introductions
Naveenaa_A_K: hi, Im a studen researching SSI, its why I'm here. 
  Hello to everyone
Heather Vescent:  Hello Naveena, welcome. Anyone else for 
  introductions?
  ... moving on to re-introductions. Caspar!
Manu Sporny: Welcome to the group, Naveenaa :)
Manu Sporny: Welcome back, Caspar! :)
Caspar_Roelofs_(Gimly): im here for the first time with a 
  workitem, excited to be here as the founder of Gimly working on 
  this item
Heather Vescent:  Great. Thank you Caspar, anyone else to 
  reintroduce themselves? Ok, lets move on then
Heather Vescent: https://w3c-ccg.github.io/announcements/
Heather Vescent:  Topic: Announcements and Reminders
<juan_caballero> yay for novice-friendly recordings!
Heather Vescent:  This CCG 101 presentation will have a second 
  meeting later, it will also be recorded. Are there any other 
  introductions of reminders which should be mentioned at this 
  time?
Manu Sporny:  Just an announcement, ill attach to the mailing 
  list later. DID WG has reached a new milestone! All tests for the 
  test suite are complete
  ... this is great news. In the next 2 weeks we need 
  implementations submitted. There are instructions on how to 
  submit implementations
Manu Sporny: 
  https://github.com/w3c/did-test-suite/#adding-your-did-implementation
  ... so if you're an implementer, please submit an 
  implementation. We would love to see the work and if it's 
  compatible with the DID specs. Ill attach this to the mailing 
  list later. Thank you
Heather Vescent: Action Items: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/community/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3A%22action%3A+review+next%22
Heather Vescent:  Thank you manu, great to see the DID work 
  moving along. This has been a long time coming, great job 
  everyonee
Heather Vescent: #188: 
  Https://github.com/w3c-ccg/community/issues/188
Heather Vescent:  Topic: Action Items
  ... #188 is an approved work item, Caspar, or Jack would like 
  to speak about this?
Heather Vescent: This is the new work item repo: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/verifiable-conditions
Jack_Tanner(Gimly): this is a new verification method type, it 
  allows for more complex crypto, allowing multi-sig proofs or 
  delegations or a combination of the two. It can also express 
  relationships
<orie> huge +1 to this work item, we've needed more community 
  support for multisig vms for some time
<orie> very excited to see progress on this front.
  ... Caspar and I are interested in feedback, and what the next 
  steps are
Heather Vescent:  Great. Thank you, Manu youre on the queue
<juan_caballero> good point, thanks manu
Manu Sporny:  I understand the specs, but are there plain 
  language use-cases to help explain to everyone?
Jack_Tanner(Gimly): MFA. An authenticaion can be submitted to a 
  server with a "fingerprint" and a "signature" in one
<manu_sporny> Great, thank you, Jack.
Heather Vescent: #190: 
  Https://github.com/w3c-ccg/community/issues/190
Heather Vescent:  Awesome, this is an active work item. Please 
  contact the Gimly people to continue working
Jack_Tanner(Gimly): excuse me, what are the next steps for 
  everyone?
Wanye_Chang: There have been no objections to the work-item. The 
  chairs will review, and possibly designate this as a work item. 
  Give us a couple of days to do that, does that work for you?
https://w3c-ccg.github.io/workitem-process/
Jack_Tanner(Gimly): is the final objective to make a W3 spec?
Orie Steele:  For these types of documents, there is a respec 
  document that describes the verificaiton type and signature type. 
  Probably expect to see something like that
Orie Steele: There is this: 
  https://w3c-ccg.github.io/ld-cryptosuite-registry/
Heather Vescent:  Thinking about the CC 101 group, we might need 
  to revisit this topic
<orie> ^ which attempts to register a number of these suites.
Manu Sporny: ...Badly... that registry is hella out of date :)
Juan Caballero: Youtube/SEO-discoverable recording of that CCG101 
  session might be good :D
<manu_sporny> ... and desperately needs to be updated.
Orie Steele: PRs welcome :)
Wayne_Chang: that sounds like a great idea Heather, I'd be 
  willing to attend the CCG 101. Its a big, moving project. Its up 
  to the work item owners, and the group will support you in your 
  decisions on what you'd like to do
<manu_sporny> yes, please.
Manu Sporny: https://w3c.github.io/lds-wg-charter/
<mprorock> i would be happy to talk about respec generation from 
  code an / or test assets
Manu Sporny:  Thank you heather. Jack to tie it in with other 
  work in the ecosystem. The Link Data Official charter will 
  probably be up in the W3C in a month or so. Ideally you can find 
  a group of people who would want to work on this with you. Keep 
  refining, reiterating. You might want to get other 
  implementations involved, not required but help smooth the 
  process to an official Standards track. Start getting as
Many people to participate with the item, before we can move it 
  forward officially
Heather Vescent: #190: 
  Https://github.com/w3c-ccg/community/issues/190
Orie Steele: +1 To closing.
Mike Prorock: +1
Juan Caballero: +1 From me
Heather Vescent:  This is a resolution concern about this 
  VCHTTPAPI work item. Any objections to closing this issue?
Heather Vescent: #191: 
  Https://github.com/w3c-ccg/community/issues/191
  ... next one #191 - Tracability API
<mprorock> "Traceability Interoperability Profile" is proposed 
  name
Orie Steele:  I think we've made progress describing this work 
  item. Previous calls determined that we are trying include many 
  things into this interop profile. It relies on other specs that 
  are out there today, not intending to replace those specs. 
  Tracability Interoperability Profile - any opinion about that 
  vocab?
Manu Sporny: +1 To "Traceability Interoperability Profile" or 
  anything other than "API" in the name :P
<orie> naming is hard
<juan_caballero> a little ablist but it is what it says (j/k!)
<manu> I'd also be a +1 to "Traceability Interop Work Item" or 
  "Traceability Interop Task Force"...
Wayne_Chang: thats a lot to say, but describes everything the 
  work item is about. This scopes into describing parts of the 
  ecosystem, the name works well. No objections to moving forward 
  with the work item
<manu> no concerns (to be clear)
<juan_caballero> hope my conflicts get resolved and i can 
  participate again soon!
Heather Vescent:  Any objections to moving forward with the work 
  item? This can move forward. Thank you Orie
Juan Caballero: +1 To <3 TallTed, a paragon for community editors 
  everywhere!
Manu Sporny: +1 To what Orie is saying -- really great to hear 
  that level of deep reflection.
Orie Steele:  Thank you heather, Chairs, and community for 
  working with mme. Thank you Tall Ted for a number of 
  opportunities. Direct feedback is best for me, and I really 
  appreciate all the feedback about how to work moving forward. I 
  love working with this community, and the best part of working 
  with you is the positive feedback. Thank you Tall Ted, Manu!
<manu> lol (kumbaya CCG)
<wayne_chang> let us join hands and share data schemas
Heather Vescent:  Awesome. Always good to have resolution when 
  conversations get heated
<juan_caballero> LINK hands
Mike Prorock: +1 Here
Manu Sporny: And really great to see that it turned out well for 
  the community :)
Heather Vescent: Introduction to the CCG: 
  https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/15BfjGKHEski3k1uFh88gNQcSYV0Laemx/edit#slide=id.p1
<tayken> ü§ù üëè ü§ù
  ... CCG 101 folks here? Awesome. We are going to do an Intro to 
  the CCG. This will be a shared presentation. Starting with me, 
  then moving to the 101 team. This is a first step at building an 
  orientation for others who have not been here often. This is a 
  basic orientation about what we are doing. This is the first one, 
  please work with us as we develop making the CCG more accessible 
  to other, new people. We
<mahmoud_alkhraishi> looks good
Are Geeks, we need to make this more available for non-Geeks
<jack_tanner_(gimly)> I can access
<manu_sporny> Yes, can see slide deck.
  ... Wayne, could you watc the queue?
Heather Vescent: Link again: 
  https://drive.google.com/file/d/15BfjGKHEski3k1uFh88gNQcSYV0Laemx/view?usp=sharing
Wayne_Chang: I got it
Heather Vescent:  Here's the link. This presentation covers a 
  broad overview of the CCG group, standards, etc etc... dealing 
  with this community ecosystem.
  ... We are looking at a varity of technologies about VCs and 
  trying to look past the "bleeding-edge" to see what is possible 
  and how we can do it. We have strong values: User control, 
  privacy of data, tech used appropriately. This community is about 
  developing technology in the open, transparent for the community. 
  Thank you Anil John for helping develop the standards and this 
  work because we all think it is
Beneficial.
  ... W3C has different groups. The CCG is a community group, Its 
  free to join, and open to everyone. You just have to have an 
  account, must sign an IPR agreement. CCG is all volunteers, we 
  dont have formal resource support. A lot of this work has 
  potential to become standards here or other places.
Kim Hamilton Duffy: Note: there's a problem with the minute 
  generation script, which you'll see in the 4/20 minutes email. I 
  opened an issue, but I'll see if anything obvious in the github 
  action logs stand out. I think other minutes have been fine
  ... Contrasted to a W3C Working Group. Only paid W3C members 
  can be members of a working group. There are different 
  formalities that come with that. This is a Standards Track type 
  of work. Things can be reopened to possibly revise the product
Kim Hamilton Duffy: Me == Not chair :)
<wayne_chang> ^
<wayne_chang> congrats on your awesome chairing!
  ... We love to see the CCG group as a "big tent" to be able to 
  work with different groups. We have active membership. We 
  currently have a co-chair role open, looking to make adjustments 
  for recruiting.
  ... Participation is really about the community. IIW recently 
  showed us what the future might hold
Mike Prorock:  I can hop in here at slide #9
<dmitriz> question about the slides - is somebody supposed to be 
  sharing a screen?
Ryan Grant: 
  https://drive.google.com/file/d/15BfjGKHEski3k1uFh88gNQcSYV0Laemx/view?usp=sharing
Heather Vescent: Here are the slides: 
  https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/15BfjGKHEski3k1uFh88gNQcSYV0Laemx/edit#slide=id.gd34e0ce32d_0_1
  ... I wanted to start, since W3C is a standards body. Speaking 
  to what that is. There are multiple outcomes to work here. From a 
  w3C pov, we are looking at actual web standards. There are other 
  bodies that look elsewhere. The standard itself is more in terms 
  of the actual specs. Where standards are actually useful is 
  external facing objects. Once you start repeating, and segmenting 
  the groups, this is where
Standards become important.
<heathervescent> Thanks to Manu for creating this slide!
<manu_sporny> I think it's great that Mike's doing the 
  background, btw
  ... Standards makes sure data is being exchanged in a normal 
  way. Therefore, everyone understands whats going on. A lot of 
  this stuff pre-dates me and my involvement here, but starts back 
  at the beginning of DIDs and credentials.
<heathervescent> Thanks Manu - we are trying to circulate the 
  knowledge through the community!
Manu Sporny: +1 To that!
  ... Link Data group is bringing important work. There is a lot 
  of active discussions in the mailing list. These are the 
  foundational parts of exchanging data. Everything is supported by 
  the infrastructure task force, These are the calls, the minutes, 
  and how we organize. There are the VC side, the DID side. Then 
  there is the secure data storage group.
Manu Sporny: (And Kim - who made it accessible, and Heather for 
  documenting it so others could use it, and Wayne for creating the 
  ITF)... many hands :)
  ... Work item overview starts at the proposal. Proposing it in 
  GitHub. Moving that in if there are no objections, then the item 
  cycles through the processes. This is essentially a filtering 
  process to get to that point. The CCG is involved in multiple 
  levels DIDs and specs, and how to exchange those things. Lastly, 
  the thing that goes in the VC
<heathervescent> Thanks to Manu for this amazing timeline as 
  well! And for spending time with the 101 team to tell us about 
  all these items.
Fred: this slide is about a lot of the different work items the 
  CCG has been involved with. There is the link portal, JSON-LD. In 
  yellow, there are the vocab work items for the credentials/VCs. 
  The pink is looking at moving the credentials around, resolution 
  and CHAPI and so on. This timeline is the work items and specs 
  done throughout the years so we can see how things are evolving 
  throughout the ecosystem
Heather Vescent:  Great, thank you. One of the topics we wanted 
  to cover was
  ... what is SSI
Manu Sporny: "Governments hate it!" <-- hmm, not all governments 
  :)
<tallted> acronym for `Self Sovereign Identity`
  ... it is an approach to Digital Identity, but it is 
  controversial. Since we love to discuss the deep-end we love this 
  conversation. There can be different personal values on using the 
  tech, but the tech can be used
<juan_caballero> #notAllGovernments
<kim> hey, I don't like SSI either. And I'm not a government
<manu_sporny> The Government of Kimlandia.
<dmitriz> lol
Kim_Linson: this is for everyone who is brand-new. I had to do 
  this myself. The formalities require you to make a W3C account. 
  Validate it. Then you're in. There will be instructions on how to 
  complete the process. This is the website here, this is important 
  here.
  ... Lastly, on a level-one intro. Go ahead and join the mailing 
  list. At the beginning it is a lot to read, but it really lets 
  you understand the topic and the community. This will help you 
  get comfortable to move further.
  ... Github, googledrive, meeting links, the minutes, the work 
  item process. A few more things, I really like this slide. You do 
  hear a lot of voices in these meetings, this is for newcomers. 
  Linkedin profiles to see who these people are. Anil referenced 
  Manu's youtube videos last week, thank you for those.
Manu Sporny: Glad they helped... top artists worked on those 
  videos. :P
<kimhd> Manu's json-ld videos helped me out a few years ago, they 
  are great
<mprorock> pretty liberal with the term "excellent" there
<juan_caballero> huge thanks to Mprorock
<juan_caballero> s
<juan_caballero> walkthru from last week!
<juan_caballero> it excelled by any measure
  ... let me plug whats coming up. This afternoon we will do this 
  presentation again. Last week Mike did a wonderful presentation, 
  thank you. In june we will be doing an VC exchange for education. 
  We want to do DIDs. Anyone coming to a 101, please think about 
  how you can help someone who is brandnew understand these 
  concepts. We 101 folks need that.
<jack_tanner_(gimly)> very nice presentation!!!
<manu_sporny> That was great -- thank you to the CCG 101 folks 
  for putting it together!
<manu_sporny> (and this was an excellent use of CCG main call 
  time) -- I feel like we need to do this every 6 months or so.
Mike Prorock: +1 Manu, especially as we start to see newcommers 
  and broader audiences
<manu_sporny> lol CCG tiktok -- like we need that sort of 
  trouble.
Juan Caballero: +1
<wayne_chang> EFF has one
Heather Vescent:  Thanks Kim, Mike, Fred! One last comment, this 
  community is accessible. Please reach out to us. Email. Dont 
  hesistate. If anyone is working on work items and want help to 
  translate it to a CCG 101 level presentation, the community will 
  help you with that. We will start putting these presentations on 
  the CCG youtube. We will do a re-do of this topic later this 
  afternoon. Oh, Kim please youre on
The queue
<juan_caballero> even for me, after all these years
<juan_caballero> cold sweat
<mprorock> ccg is nice compared to kernel
<kayode_ezike> +++1 Kim
Kim Hamilton Duffy:  This community is best when there are 
  mutliple voices. So if there is anything that we can do to make 
  things more accessible please let us know
Kerri Lemoie: +1 Kim!  :heart:
Juan Caballero: 
  https://didme.me/did:meme:1zgsx6kp3w4gy0wc25kz5d0wr9tc2t7my0l24ywcsc50xyqtqec96kdc8rssxx
Caspar_Roelofs_(Gimly): thank you Heather, Kim. This group has 
  been very welcoming. I have a question. if we want resources to 
  train devs, or for a new dev in this space, if they wanted to 
  learn about the SSI work and tech/specs. Where could we find the 
  resources? Would you recommend resources? Are they collected 
  somewhere?
Heather Vescent:  Please Mike, go ahead.
<kim> if there ends up being a dev-to-dev onboarding, I'd be 
  happy to help contribute what I know
Mike Prorock:  We have been looking into that. The tracability 
  work has good recordings out there currently. I am happy to 
  facilitate sessions for devs to help get their feet wet. Please 
  reachout on the mailing list if you need somehting outside of the 
  normal schedule
<heathervescent> It's been my dream to make this happen for a 
  long time! The 101 team has been great!
Manu Sporny:  I just wanted to start by saying thank you to the 
  CCG 101 team, thank you heather for leading that, and thank yo 
  uto those who put the presentation together. Id like to see this 
  every few months or so to re-introduce the way we get things done 
  here. The other thing, it breaks my heart hearing that people are 
  intimidated sending emails to the mailing list. But I understand. 
  I want to echo what Kim said:
We have a welcoming, inclusive group here. So, if there is 
  anything we can do to make anything easier for anyone please let 
  us know! Thats it
<juan_caballero> is a separate ccg101 mailing list an option?
Kerri Lemoie: +1 @Juan. Wondering the same
Mike Prorock: +1 Juan - or a tag in the subject line
Heather Vescent:  Thank you Manu. Wayne, we might need to kick 
  the IWW recap to next week. I understand being intimidated 
  sending an email to the mailing list. This can allow us to 
  explore different techniques on how to include newer community 
  members. The people here who are regulars might be intimidating.
<juan_caballero> ooooh tag in subject line is a good idea
<wayne_chang> sure thing, happy to talk about it next week
<juan_caballero> huge applause all around! ccg101 is great work
  ... this looks like the end of the meeting. Thank you to 
  everyone for coming today. Extra thanks to CCG 101, Kim, Fred, 
  Mike. That concludes the meeting. Next time will be next week at 
  this time
<kayode_ezike> üëèüèæüëèüèæüëèüèæ
Juan Caballero: https://github.com/w3c-ccg/ccg101 will stay the 
  home page right?
<heathervescent> All, I am kicking the remaining folks on the 
  call to conclude the meeting. Thanks all.
<heathervescent> Thanks also to Pete for scribing again.
