[Tue 12:02:19] <kimhd>	Agenda: https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-credentials/2017Dec/0019.html
[Tue 12:02:21] <voip-ccg>	Heather Vescent [SIP/66.27.176.106-00000238] has joined the conference.
[Tue 12:02:28] <ChristopherA>	voip: 233 Christian Lundquist
[Tue 12:02:28] <voip-ccg>	Unknown command: 233 Christian Lundquist
[Tue 12:02:36] <ChristopherA>	voip: 233 is Christian Lundquist
[Tue 12:02:36] <voip-ccg>	Associated Christian Lundquist with SIP/69.65.34.216-00000233.
[Tue 12:02:54] <voip-ccg>	19783970693 [SIP/69.65.34.216-00000239] has joined the conference.
[Tue 12:03:15] <voip-ccg>	David Chadwick [SIP/truetrust.onsip.com-0000023a] has joined the conference.
[Tue 12:03:20] <voip-ccg>	Manu Sporny [SIP/6000-0000023b] has joined the conference.
[Tue 12:03:27] <voip-ccg>	Dave Longley [SIP/6002-0000023c] has joined the conference.
[Tue 12:03:54] *	TallTed has changed the topic to: The W3C Credentials Community Group Agenda: https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-credentials/2017Dec/0019.html
[Tue 12:04:10] *	jarlath (~jarlath@public.cloak) has joined #ccg
[Tue 12:04:15] <voip-ccg>	12066188530 [SIP/69.65.34.216-0000023d] has joined the conference.
[Tue 12:04:27] <manu>	scribe: DavidC
[Tue 12:04:35] <voip-ccg>	13125222321 [SIP/69.65.34.216-0000023e] has joined the conference.
[Tue 12:04:51] <voip-ccg>	14153505140 [SIP/69.65.34.216-0000023f] has joined the conference.
[Tue 12:05:04] *	rgrant (~rgrant@public.cloak) has joined #ccg
[Tue 12:05:05] *	drummond (~drummond@public.cloak) has joined #ccg
[Tue 12:05:11] <rgrant>	voip-ccg: connections
[Tue 12:05:11] <voip-ccg>	Conference participants are: ChristopherA [SIP/10.0.1.106-0000022d], Moses Ma [SIP/69.65.34.216-0000022e], David Lehn [SIP/6003-00000230], kimhd [SIP/69.65.34.216-00000231], TallTed [SIP/10.0.0.140-00000232], Christian Lundquist [SIP/69.65.34.216-00000233], 17736142279 [SIP/69.65.34.216-00000234], 17039895988 [SIP/69.65.34.216-00000235], Michael Lodder [SIP/evernym.onsip.com-00000236], JoeAndrieu [SIP/69.65.34.216-00000237], Heather Vescent
[Tue 12:05:11] <voip-ccg>	[SIP/66.27.176.106-00000238], 19783970693 [SIP/69.65.34.216-00000239], David Chadwick [SIP/truetrust.onsip.com-0000023a], Manu Sporny [SIP/6000-0000023b], Dave Longley [SIP/6002-0000023c], 12066188530 [SIP/69.65.34.216-0000023d], 13125222321 [SIP/69.65.34.216-0000023e], 14153505140 [SIP/69.65.34.216-0000023f].
[Tue 12:05:29] <rgrant>	voip-ccg: 23e is rgrant
[Tue 12:05:29] <voip-ccg>	Associated rgrant with SIP/69.65.34.216-0000023e.
[Tue 12:05:43] <manu>	Topic: Introductions / Reintroductions
[Tue 12:06:05] *	ChristianLundkvist (~ChristianLundkvist@public.cloak) has joined #ccg
[Tue 12:06:05] <drummond>	voip-ccg: 23d is drummond
[Tue 12:06:05] <voip-ccg>	Associated drummond with SIP/69.65.34.216-0000023d.
[Tue 12:06:35] *	adam (~adam@public.cloak) has joined #ccg
[Tue 12:06:42] *	mxu (~mxu@public.cloak) has joined #ccg
[Tue 12:06:57] <DavidC>	dlehn: Hi, my name is Dave Lehn, I work for Digital Bazaar with Dave and Manu working on technologies related to payments, identity, and blockchain.
[Tue 12:07:02] <voip-ccg>	Kyle Den Hartog [SIP/evernym7.onsip.com-00000240] has joined the conference.
[Tue 12:08:27] <DavidC>	Topic: Announcements
[Tue 12:08:27] <DavidC>	kimhd: Next week's agenda will be spent mostly on planning next year's work
[Tue 12:08:44] <voip-ccg>	Andrew Hughes [SIP/andrewhughes3000.onsip.com-00000241] has joined the conference.
[Tue 12:08:44] <DavidC>	... No meeting on Dec 26 or Jan 2
[Tue 12:09:05] <DavidC>	... First meeting in 2018 will be Jan 9th
[Tue 12:09:12] <JoeAndrieu>	q+
[Tue 12:09:12] <voip-ccg>	JoeAndrieu has been added to the queue: JoeAndrieu
[Tue 12:09:24] <cwebber2>	present+ Chris_Webber
[Tue 12:09:28] <kimhd>	q?
[Tue 12:09:28] <voip-ccg>	The current speaker queue is: JoeAndrieu
[Tue 12:09:31] *	cwebber2 not sure if we were supposed to do that :)
[Tue 12:09:34] <kimhd>	ack JoeAndrieu
[Tue 12:09:34] <voip-ccg>	JoeAndrieu has the floor.
[Tue 12:09:50] *	manu DavidC Make sure to put the person's IRC nick or last name before what they said... exmaple -- JoeAndrieu: hi
[Tue 12:09:57] <DavidC>	... Virtual Hackathon will take place in week January 15th-19th
[Tue 12:11:05] <drummond>	q+
[Tue 12:11:05] <voip-ccg>	drummond has been added to the queue: drummond
[Tue 12:11:08] <ChristopherA>	+1
[Tue 12:11:26] <kimhd>	ack drummond
[Tue 12:11:26] <voip-ccg>	drummond has the floor.
[Tue 12:11:32] <kimhd>	q?
[Tue 12:11:32] <voip-ccg>	The speaker queue is empty.
[Tue 12:11:35] <DavidC>	manu: are group happy to pull in change request for editorial changes?
[Tue 12:11:43] <voip-ccg>	Andrew Hughes [SIP/andrewhughes3000.onsip.com-00000241] has left the conference.
[Tue 12:12:05] <DavidC>	Manu: for abstract and overview section
[Tue 12:12:33] <manu>	Process for Registries: https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-credentials/2017Dec/0020.html
[Tue 12:12:59] <voip-ccg>	Andrew Hughes [SIP/andrewhughes3000.onsip.com-00000242] has joined the conference.
[Tue 12:13:19] <cwebber2>	https://w3c-ccg.github.io/ld-ocap/
[Tue 12:13:44] *	achughes Got connected to audio using app.onsip.com on Firefox
[Tue 12:13:47] *	cwebber2 now a real document! :)
[Tue 12:14:13] <ChristopherA>	action: Chairs to suggest adding Object Capabilities, registry, process, etc. as potential work items on main w3c-ccg page
[Tue 12:14:30] <voip-ccg>	Zachary [SIP/10.200.129.74-00000243] has joined the conference.
[Tue 12:14:58] <voip-ccg>	Zachary [SIP/10.200.129.74-00000243] has left the conference.
[Tue 12:14:58] <JoeAndrieu>	q+ to talk about hackathon
[Tue 12:14:59] <voip-ccg>	JoeAndrieu has been added to the queue: JoeAndrieu
[Tue 12:15:05] <DavidC>	manu: no action on Veres One DID Method spec
[Tue 12:15:07] <ChristopherA>	q+
[Tue 12:15:07] <voip-ccg>	ChristopherA has been added to the queue: JoeAndrieu, ChristopherA
[Tue 12:15:16] *	ZacharyL (~ZacharyL@public.cloak) has joined #ccg
[Tue 12:15:16] <kimhd>	ack JoeAndrieu
[Tue 12:15:16] <voip-ccg>	JoeAndrieu has the floor (to talk about hackathon).
[Tue 12:15:30] <manu>	q+ to note Veres One hackathon participation.
[Tue 12:15:30] <voip-ccg>	manu has been added to the queue: ChristopherA, manu
[Tue 12:15:45] <kimhd>	q?
[Tue 12:15:45] <voip-ccg>	The current speaker queue is: ChristopherA, manu
[Tue 12:15:56] <kimhd>	ack ChristopherA
[Tue 12:15:56] <voip-ccg>	ChristopherA has the floor.
[Tue 12:16:13] <voip-ccg>	Zachary [SIP/10.200.129.74-00000245] has joined the conference.
[Tue 12:16:40] <voip-ccg>	Zachary [SIP/10.200.129.74-00000245] has left the conference.
[Tue 12:16:41] <kimhd>	ack manu
[Tue 12:16:41] <voip-ccg>	manu has the floor (to note Veres One hackathon participation.).
[Tue 12:17:04] <JoeAndrieu>	sounds great, Manu. any participation will help.
[Tue 12:17:40] <voip-ccg>	17039895988 [SIP/69.65.34.216-00000248] has joined the conference.
[Tue 12:17:53] *	markus_sabadello (~markus_sabadello@public.cloak) has joined #ccg
[Tue 12:18:17] <kimhd>	q?
[Tue 12:18:17] <voip-ccg>	The speaker queue is empty.
[Tue 12:19:19] <kimhd>	Topic: Status of Work Items
[Tue 12:18:32] <DavidC>	kimhd: no update on W3C-CCG to discuss reconciliation of #RebootingWebOfTrust & Hardening changes
[Tue 12:18:44] <manu>	q+ for brief update.
[Tue 12:18:44] <voip-ccg>	manu has been added to the queue: manu
[Tue 12:18:51] <kimhd>	ack manu
[Tue 12:18:51] <voip-ccg>	manu has the floor (for brief update.).
[Tue 12:19:10] <DavidC>	manu: Joe rewording changes to abstract
[Tue 12:19:23] <DavidC>	manu: 2 PRs can be accepted
[Tue 12:19:44] <DavidC>	manu: next big change is pulling authz stuff out
[Tue 12:20:21] <drummond>	OCAP = object capabilities
[Tue 12:20:25] <ChristopherA>	q+ (for DavidC on Lifecycle Model document)
[Tue 12:20:25] <voip-ccg>	ChristopherA has been added to the queue: ChristopherA
[Tue 12:20:26] <kimhd>	https://w3c-ccg.github.io/vc-lifecycle/
[Tue 12:20:27] <DavidC>	manu: ocap and hardening changes are next ones for the spec
[Tue 12:20:31] <voip-ccg>	19283808156 [SIP/69.65.34.216-00000249] has joined the conference.
[Tue 12:20:39] *	ZacharyL_ (~ZacharyL@public.cloak) has joined #ccg
[Tue 12:20:53] <kimhd>	DavidC: want people to read the doc; pass comments.
[Tue 12:21:29] <kimhd>	...bigger than doc a few months ago. Topics such as holder != subject, objections to VC. Needs people to review and comment
[Tue 12:21:36] <kimhd>	q?
[Tue 12:21:36] <voip-ccg>	The current speaker queue is: ChristopherA
[Tue 12:21:49] <manu>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/vc-lifecycle
[Tue 12:22:04] <kimhd>	ack ChristopherA
[Tue 12:22:04] <voip-ccg>	ChristopherA has the floor ((for DavidC on Lifecycle Model document)).
[Tue 12:22:18] *	ZacharyL has quit (Ping timeout: 180 seconds)
[Tue 12:22:28] <voip-ccg>	Unknown [SIP/69.65.34.216-0000024a] has joined the conference.
[Tue 12:23:53] <kimhd>	DavidC: scope is looking at how people collect attributes, wove in feedback from TPAC
[Tue 12:24:05] <kimhd>	...would be happy for anyone to join and give feedback
[Tue 12:24:07] <manu>	q+ to ask if we can pull parts of the doc into other docs.
[Tue 12:24:07] <voip-ccg>	manu has been added to the queue: manu
[Tue 12:24:19] <kimhd>	ack manu
[Tue 12:24:19] <voip-ccg>	manu has the floor (to ask if we can pull parts of the doc into other docs.).
[Tue 12:24:43] <ChristopherA>	Some feel like issues and/or pull requests.
[Tue 12:25:40] <kimhd>	DavidC: would be happy for document to be reused in other areas
[Tue 12:26:23] <manu>	+1 for documents as group work items, shuffling text to where it should go across all work items.
[Tue 12:26:30] <DavidC>	next topic: engagement model
[Tue 12:26:58] <DavidC>	JoeAndrieu: hope to have next draft by January.
[Tue 12:27:17] <DavidC>	next topic: browser api and polyfill
[Tue 12:27:42] <kimhd>	Action: Kim provide feedback on VC Browser API and polyfill re BTCR
[Tue 12:27:46] <DavidC>	dlongley: looking for people to write code to test against our code
[Tue 12:28:00] <DavidC>	dlongley: hoping to talk to google next year
[Tue 12:28:18] <kimhd>	"Privacy & Security Requirements for Credentials Ecosystem"
[Tue 12:28:24] <DavidC>	next topic: privacy and security requirements
[Tue 12:28:30] <kimhd>	https://docs.google.com/docum
[Tue 12:28:37] <kimhd>	 https://docs.google.com/document/d/1ffVGcXTYaJI21soezu_o6LhjoEPSN6MPqYGFdJEPfgQ/edit#heading=h.tbhfho86u4l8
[Tue 12:28:59] <DavidC>	kimhd: is this a work item or should it be rolled into data model spec
[Tue 12:29:05] <kimhd>	q?
[Tue 12:29:05] <voip-ccg>	The speaker queue is empty.
[Tue 12:29:14] <ChristopherA>	q+
[Tue 12:29:14] <voip-ccg>	ChristopherA has been added to the queue: ChristopherA
[Tue 12:29:58] <kimhd>	DavidC: has been superceded by answers to a set of questions on privacy issues in the context of WG
[Tue 12:30:09] <manu>	q+ to note that DavidC is correct - PING review is next and David provided the input they need.
[Tue 12:30:10] <voip-ccg>	manu has been added to the queue: ChristopherA, manu
[Tue 12:30:18] <kimhd>	ack ChristopherA
[Tue 12:30:18] <voip-ccg>	ChristopherA has the floor.
[Tue 12:30:52] <dlongley>	https://www.w3.org/TR/security-privacy-questionnaire/
[Tue 12:31:37] <dlongley>	w3c has a sort of "standard" questionnaire that i've linked to above^
[Tue 12:31:47] *	stonematt has quit ("Leaving...")
[Tue 12:31:53] <kimhd>	DavidC: perhaps we can fold text into docs
[Tue 12:32:50] <kimhd>	q?
[Tue 12:32:50] <voip-ccg>	The current speaker queue is: manu
[Tue 12:32:58] <kimhd>	ack manu
[Tue 12:32:58] <voip-ccg>	manu has the floor (to note that DavidC is correct - PING review is next and David provided the input they need.).
[Tue 12:34:06] <DavidC>	Topic: DID Spec Change Requests
[Tue 12:34:21] <JoeAndrieu>	q+ to DID PR 36
[Tue 12:34:21] <voip-ccg>	JoeAndrieu has been added to the queue: JoeAndrieu
[Tue 12:34:33] <JoeAndrieu>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/did-spec/pull/36
[Tue 12:34:35] <DavidC>	#36 Change "identity" language to "identifier".
[Tue 12:34:36] <manu>	q+ to point out cool new feature for our PRs.
[Tue 12:34:37] <voip-ccg>	manu has been added to the queue: JoeAndrieu, manu
[Tue 12:34:44] <kimhd>	ack JoeAndrieu
[Tue 12:34:44] <voip-ccg>	JoeAndrieu has the floor (to DID PR 36).
[Tue 12:34:52] <ChristianLundkvist>	q?
[Tue 12:34:52] <voip-ccg>	The current speaker queue is: manu
[Tue 12:35:04] <DavidC>	JoeAndrieu: change subject entity to subject
[Tue 12:35:11] <drummond>	+1 for just using "subject"
[Tue 12:35:13] <kimhd>	Action: DavidC review spec to see if privacy and security reqs language is in spec and provide changes if not
[Tue 12:35:14] <manu>	manu: +1 to go to subject.
[Tue 12:35:36] <kimhd>	q?
[Tue 12:35:36] <voip-ccg>	The current speaker queue is: manu
[Tue 12:35:39] <dlongley>	+1 that's what a DID doc is post RWoT.
[Tue 12:35:43] <kimhd>	ack manu
[Tue 12:35:43] <voip-ccg>	manu has the floor (to point out cool new feature for our PRs.).
[Tue 12:35:44] <drummond>	q+
[Tue 12:35:44] <voip-ccg>	drummond has been added to the queue: drummond
[Tue 12:35:52] <manu>	q+ to point out cool new feature for our PRs.
[Tue 12:35:52] <voip-ccg>	manu has been added to the queue: drummond, manu
[Tue 12:35:55] <kimhd>	ack drummond
[Tue 12:35:55] <voip-ccg>	drummond has the floor.
[Tue 12:35:57] <DavidC>	JoeAndrieu: thinks his current summary is OK, any one objects?
[Tue 12:36:31] <JoeAndrieu>	q+
[Tue 12:36:31] <voip-ccg>	JoeAndrieu has been added to the queue: manu, JoeAndrieu
[Tue 12:36:34] <ChristopherA>	q+
[Tue 12:36:34] <voip-ccg>	ChristopherA has been added to the queue: manu, JoeAndrieu, ChristopherA
[Tue 12:36:37] <DavidC>	Drummond: Authz are message specific, so need to be more concise in the spec
[Tue 12:36:49] <dlongley>	s/message/DID method/
[Tue 12:37:40] <DavidC>	Drummond: open issue are the documents for key management or only for specific types of keys
[Tue 12:37:53] <kimhd>	q?
[Tue 12:37:53] <voip-ccg>	The current speaker queue is: manu, JoeAndrieu, ChristopherA
[Tue 12:38:35] <manu>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/did-spec/pull/36#issue-278710628
[Tue 12:38:39] <DavidC>	Manu: there is a new tool for repository has a preview link and a diff link
[Tue 12:39:00] <DavidC>	Manu: diff shows word for word changes
[Tue 12:39:21] <kimhd>	ack manu
[Tue 12:39:21] <voip-ccg>	manu has the floor (to point out cool new feature for our PRs.).
[Tue 12:39:26] <manu>	q+ to respond to Drummond and "What a DID Document is about"
[Tue 12:39:26] <voip-ccg>	manu has been added to the queue: JoeAndrieu, ChristopherA, manu
[Tue 12:39:47] <DavidC>	JoeAndrieu: we are talking about modification rather than authz
[Tue 12:39:54] <kimhd>	ack JoeAndrieu
[Tue 12:39:54] <voip-ccg>	JoeAndrieu has the floor.
[Tue 12:39:58] <ChristopherA>	how about add text "plus method specific information to support proof and key management"
[Tue 12:39:59] <drummond>	+1 to "modify" or "update" ("update" being one of the CRUD terms)
[Tue 12:40:00] <kimhd>	ack ChristopherA
[Tue 12:40:00] <voip-ccg>	ChristopherA has the floor.
[Tue 12:40:30] <kimhd>	also +1 to "modify" or "update"
[Tue 12:40:56] <kimhd>	ack manu
[Tue 12:40:56] <voip-ccg>	manu has the floor (to respond to Drummond and "What a DID Document is about").
[Tue 12:40:58] <DavidC>	ChristopherA: method needed for updating the document
[Tue 12:41:00] <drummond>	Key management isn't always method-specific. Methods MAY have method-specific key management, but there's also key management that's not method-specific.
[Tue 12:41:39] <DavidC>	Manu: DID doc is not only about key management.
[Tue 12:41:45] <dlongley>	+1 DID doc is not just about key management
[Tue 12:41:57] <DavidC>	Manu: is it about update and modification or general authz
[Tue 12:42:13] <kimhd>	q?
[Tue 12:42:13] <voip-ccg>	The speaker queue is empty.
[Tue 12:42:18] <drummond>	I would never say it's "just" about key management. But I think key management is a key part (sic) of what DID documents are about.
[Tue 12:42:20] <JoeAndrieu>	+1 to more than key management
[Tue 12:42:37] <dlongley>	i think a DID doc is about establishing an independent entity and being able to authenticate that certain activities/actions were performed by that entity -- and to interact with that entity via services.
[Tue 12:42:49] <DavidC>	Manu: we cannot control what people will put in DID docs
[Tue 12:43:27] <DavidC>	Manu: But we have to say how keys, authn and authz are dealt with
[Tue 12:43:43] <JoeAndrieu>	keys are technology specific. there will be other mechanisms in the future. "Authentication" is an attempt to embrace other potential means for vetting actors
[Tue 12:43:46] <kimhd>	q?
[Tue 12:43:46] <voip-ccg>	The speaker queue is empty.
[Tue 12:43:55] <DavidC>	Manu: this discussion will continue in the DID hardening meetings
[Tue 12:44:25] <manu>	Comment thread here - https://github.com/w3c-ccg/did-spec/pull/36
[Tue 12:44:31] *	manu bikeshed bikeshed bikeshed! :P
[Tue 12:44:47] *	kimhd it should be green with red trim
[Tue 12:44:56] *	manu chuckles.
[Tue 12:44:58] <DavidC>	JoeAndrieu: please put your comments in the PR
[Tue 12:45:00] <kimhd>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/did-spec/pull/34
[Tue 12:45:00] <drummond>	Agree with Manu about his comments of the focus of the DID spec hardening meetings
[Tue 12:45:05] *	manu shouldn't say that - this is a pretty fundamental discussion, but rooted in what was supposed to be an editorial change.
[Tue 12:45:53] <kimhd>	+1
[Tue 12:46:28] <kimhd>	q?
[Tue 12:46:28] <voip-ccg>	The speaker queue is empty.
[Tue 12:47:03] <DavidC>	#34 Move standard key descriptions to separate specification.
[Tue 12:47:15] <drummond>	I agree with Manu that we need to close on the DID spec hardening discussions before we know what the structure of a key description registry will look like.
[Tue 12:47:16] <DavidC>	Manu: we are less certain about this PR than the other ones
[Tue 12:47:49] <kimhd>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/did-spec/pull/33
[Tue 12:47:54] <DavidC>	#33 Split DID Method Registry out of specification.
[Tue 12:47:54] <manu>	q+
[Tue 12:47:55] <voip-ccg>	manu has been added to the queue: manu
[Tue 12:48:29] <rgrant>	+1 for splitting out registry, and this pull request
[Tue 12:48:30] <kimhd>	q?
[Tue 12:48:30] <voip-ccg>	The current speaker queue is: manu
[Tue 12:48:33] <drummond>	+1 to the overall idea of having a separate key description registry. It's an alternative to the super-structured and heavyweight approach of https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7517.
[Tue 12:48:36] <DavidC>	manu: this is straightforward PR. Should not be any objections to it
[Tue 12:48:40] <kimhd>	ack manu
[Tue 12:48:40] <voip-ccg>	manu has the floor.
[Tue 12:48:43] <kimhd>	q?
[Tue 12:48:43] <voip-ccg>	The speaker queue is empty.
[Tue 12:48:52] <drummond>	No objection to splitting out the DID method registry.
[Tue 12:48:52] <manu>	Topic: Other Topics
[Tue 12:49:06] <rgrant>	q+ to manu regardig diff tooling
[Tue 12:49:06] <voip-ccg>	rgrant has been added to the queue: rgrant
[Tue 12:49:08] <manu>	q+ to DID Hardening proposal chat
[Tue 12:49:08] <voip-ccg>	manu has been added to the queue: rgrant, manu
[Tue 12:49:09] <drummond>	q+
[Tue 12:49:09] <voip-ccg>	drummond has been added to the queue: rgrant, manu, drummond
[Tue 12:49:17] <kimhd>	ack rgrant
[Tue 12:49:17] <voip-ccg>	rgrant has the floor (to manu regardig diff tooling).
[Tue 12:49:45] <DavidC>	rgrant: manu can you point us to tools for creating html docs with gif images
[Tue 12:49:59] <DavidC>	manu: htmldif is a tool you can run on the command line
[Tue 12:50:05] <rgrant>	respec: stuff for our work
[Tue 12:50:19] <DavidC>	manu: I will find a link for respec
[Tue 12:50:21] <manu>	https://github.com/tobie/pr-preview
[Tue 12:50:46] <manu>	ack manu
[Tue 12:50:48] <voip-ccg>	manu has the floor (to DID Hardening proposal chat).
[Tue 12:51:12] <ChristopherA>	is there a good doc on creating/modifying respect  docs?
[Tue 12:51:13] <DavidC>	manu: do we keep on with DID hardening or move onto another topic
[Tue 12:51:16] <kimhd>	q?
[Tue 12:51:16] <voip-ccg>	The current speaker queue is: drummond
[Tue 12:51:20] <kimhd>	ack drummond
[Tue 12:51:20] <voip-ccg>	drummond has the floor.
[Tue 12:51:35] <DavidC>	drummond: goal of DID hardening meetings is to close the issues
[Tue 12:51:52] <DavidC>	drummond: still have 4 or 5 more issues on the list
[Tue 12:52:25] <ChristopherA>	Can we get some of the people that are not active in CCG, but coming hardening, at virtual hackathon?
[Tue 12:53:02] <kimhd>	q?
[Tue 12:53:02] <voip-ccg>	The speaker queue is empty.
[Tue 12:53:22] <DavidC>	kimhd: the hackathon would be a good place to work on DID hardening
[Tue 12:53:30] <ChristopherA>	q+
[Tue 12:53:30] <voip-ccg>	ChristopherA has been added to the queue: ChristopherA
[Tue 12:53:33] <dlongley>	+1 to take care of easier points first :)
[Tue 12:54:02] <kimhd>	ack ChristopherA
[Tue 12:54:02] <voip-ccg>	ChristopherA has the floor.
[Tue 12:54:48] <drummond>	Ok, what I could volunteer to do is do a refresh on the DID spec hardening Google doc to prioritize issues by (what appear to be) easiest to hardest, and then work from easiest to hardest if that will work best.
[Tue 12:54:50] <DavidC>	ChristopherA: can we separate issues into easy topics, ones that need more discussion in January etc.
[Tue 12:55:23] <dlongley>	+1 for easiest to hardest
[Tue 12:55:39] <manu>	+1 to Drummond's proposal... feels like that has the best morale outcome :P
[Tue 12:55:41] <DavidC>	ChristopherA: we need to move DID hardening back to CCG calls
[Tue 12:55:42] <dlongley>	that also gives more time for the harder items to stew and be discussed in other channels
[Tue 12:56:11] <kimhd>	q?
[Tue 12:56:11] <voip-ccg>	The speaker queue is empty.
[Tue 12:56:23] *	mike-lodder has quit ("Leaving")
[Tue 12:56:25] <voip-ccg>	Michael Lodder [SIP/evernym.onsip.com-00000236] has left the conference.
[Tue 12:56:31] <drummond>	Yes, I'm thinking we may want to start moving some of the DID spec hardening issues over to github so we can have dedicated discussion threads about them.
[Tue 12:56:38] *	achughes (~achughes@public.cloak) has left #ccg
[Tue 12:56:46] <voip-ccg>	Andrew Hughes [SIP/andrewhughes3000.onsip.com-00000242] has left the conference.
[Tue 12:56:59] <manu>	drummond: I can do PRs on the ones we've resolved, if you'd like...
[Tue 12:57:10] <dlongley>	+1 to using github
[Tue 12:57:12] <DavidC>	ChristopherA: work items should be chosen by group, and if no discussions within a week, then they should be accepted in the following week
[Tue 12:57:31] <manu>	drummond, I also setup David Chadwick w/ his Github editor stuff, so we could do the same w/ you when you have the time.
[Tue 12:57:42] <kimhd>	+1
[Tue 12:57:44] *	manu missed the two items.
[Tue 12:57:45] <DavidC>	ChristopherA: we are not approving the content, but that it should become a work item
[Tue 12:57:54] <drummond>	Manu: +1 to doing PRs on the issues we've resolved
[Tue 12:58:00] *	manu nods, will do.
[Tue 12:58:26] <voip-ccg>	Heather Vescent [SIP/66.27.176.106-00000238] has left the conference.
[Tue 12:58:34] *	heathervescent has quit ("Page closed")
[Tue 12:58:46] <DavidC>	ChristopherA: the work items should then be visible on the group's home page
[Tue 12:59:02] <rgrant>	+1 to make things actually work items
[Tue 12:59:05] *	drummond I just wish we collectively could bear down and spend significant time to close on all these DID issues so we can get to a hardened spec (what I like to think of as "Implementerâ€™s Draft 02").
[Tue 12:59:23] *	drummond It's my "Christmas wish" ;-)
[Tue 12:59:24] <DavidC>	ChristopherA: the registry doc should be an official work item
[Tue 12:59:45] <DavidC>	Manu: the DID registry and the process document are two further work items
[Tue 13:00:12] *	manu we could do --- PROPOSAL: Adopt Credentials CG Registry process and Linked Data Keys Registry and DID Method Registry as Work Items.
[Tue 13:00:20] <DavidC>	Manu: there are two registries: DID and revocation
[Tue 13:00:27] <ChristopherA>	PROPOSAL: Adopt Credentials CG Registry process and Linked Data Keys Registry and DID Method Registry as Work Items.
[Tue 13:00:42] <ChristopherA>	+1
[Tue 13:00:44] <kimhd>	https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-credentials/2017Dec/0020.html
[Tue 13:00:51] <manu>	+1
[Tue 13:00:53] <TallTed>	+1
[Tue 13:00:53] <dlongley>	+1
[Tue 13:00:55] <ChristopherA>	+1
[Tue 13:00:57] <kimhd>	+1
[Tue 13:00:57] <kimhd>	Present: moses, longley, sporny, lehn, chadwick, andrieu, kimhd, hartog, Sophia, TallTed, Lundkvist, rgrant, drummond, sabadello
