Thanks to Brian Richter for scribing this week! The minutes
for this week's  telecon are now available:

https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/2021-09-28-vchttpapi 

Full text of the discussion follows for W3C archival purposes.
Audio from the meeting is available as well (link provided below).

----------------------------------------------------------------
 Telecon Minutes for 2021-09-28

Agenda:
  https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-credentials/2021Sep/0124.html
Topics:
  1. New Data Flow Diagrams
  2. Pull Request Review
  3. ReSpec OAS Autogenerator Plugin
Organizer:
  Manu Sporny
Scribe:
  Brian Richter
Present:
  Mike Prorock, Michael Herman, Manu Sporny, Dmitri Zagidulin, 
  Markus Sabadello, TallTed // Ted Thibodeau (he/him) 
  (OpenLinkSw.com), David Chadwick, Ted Thibodeau, Brian Richter, 
  Adrian Gropper, Orie Steele, Juan (Spherity GmbH), Eric Schuh, 
  Joe Andrieu, Justin Richer, Brent Zundel, Mike Varley, Bob Wyman
Audio:
  https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/2021-09-28/audio.ogg

Brian Richter is scribing.
Manu Sporny:  Agenda - data flow diagram, PRs, Issue processing
Manu Sporny:  I won't be here next tuesday. one of the codeowners 
  will need to take lead for running the call
<mprorock> Codeowners List: @peacekeeper @msporny @mavarley @OR13 
  @mkhraisha
Markus Sabadello:  Its late for me but I can probably do it
<orie> its issue processing
Manu Sporny:  Orie can you backup?
Orie Steele:  Yes I can
Manu Sporny:  Next item up, michael herman you had concerns about 
  naming poll, do you want to elevate your concern?
Michael Herman:  To be clear my issue is I want to see a west 
  coast timezone for future polls
<orie> lol
<orie> its amazing how hard elections have gotten since twitter 
  was invented...
Mike prorock: vote was not on timezone, was informational poll 
  that timezone was not announced with
Manu Sporny:  Always issue with timezones, we'll take this to the 
  mailing list to resolve timezone issues
<davidc> What is wrong with UTC?
<markus_sabadello> Let's have a poll about which timezone to use 
  :)
Manu Sporny:  We will do the name changes now

Topic: New Data Flow Diagrams

Manu Sporny:  Standard flow from supply chain folks when using VC 
  API
<joe_andrieu> Updated archive entry for today's Sequence Diagram 
  https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-credentials/2021Sep/0141.html
<mprorock> big thanks to Eric and Joe on this
Joe Andrieu:  I've noticed in last half hour theres a thing 
  missing i'll get to
Joe Andrieu:  Each of the participants who are in a different 
  trust domain have different colours
Joe Andrieu:  Messages that cross these boundaries need authz
Joe Andrieu:  Often these are "i only accept access from 
  localhost"
Joe Andrieu:  We are identifying where we need to talk about 
  authz
Joe Andrieu:  Emerging definition for service and app. the 
  distinction between server, app and role. roles: holder, 
  verifier, issuer. different components: app is software or 
  service that gives vc-enabling capability (often SaaS)
<michael_herman_(trusted_digital_web)>	role -> Actor
<michael_herman_(trusted_digital_web)> Roles are not actors in 
  most formal modeling metamodels
  ... service is only accessable by the app
<manu_sporny> I like this direction...
<michael_herman_(trusted_digital_web)> Actors are assigned to 
  Roles but Actors are the only entities that perform actions.
  ... we have previously conflated the role and app and this is 
  separated now
<dmitri_zagidulin> it seems like the Verifier Storage Service 
  doesn't add much to the diagram. (plus, many verifiers won't be 
  storing the VC, etc)
<orie> Review terms here: 
  https://www.w3.org/TR/vc-data-model/#ecosystem-overview
Michael Herman:  Role could be changed to actor? formal document 
  should use formal definitions
<orie>	> holder
<michael_herman_(trusted_digital_web)> These are personas
David chadwick: in the model we've got we differentiate between 
  application layer and VC layer. when we talk about app that could 
  be browser on mobile phone or 3rd party banking app which talks 
  to holder app. on relying party side we have service provider 
  which will talk to the service
<mprorock> orie is quoting the spec here 
  https://www.w3.org/TR/vc-data-model/#dfn-holders
<michael_herman_(trusted_digital_web)> But role is not an 
  appropriate use in this diagraam
Joe Andrieu:  I would be happy to schedule call to go over that
<orie> I would happy to be on a call with you David!
<juan_(spherity_gmbh)> might be a good topic for the VC-GUIDE :D
Joe Andrieu:  We're using the term "role" since it's in the vc 
  data model
<juan_(spherity_gmbh)> (and/or for issues for VC spec v2)
<brent> so, the "holder role" label should be understood to mean 
  "an actor in a holder role?"
Michael Herman:  I don't disagree with that wording but in this 
  diagram you need to depict an actor
Joe Andrieu:  We are indicating this role is the actor ie. holder
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Would it simplify the diagram to remove 
  verifier storage service?
<michael_herman_(trusted_digital_web)> What is an Actor: 
  https://pubs.opengroup.org/architecture/archimate3-doc/chap08.html#_Toc10045368
Joe Andrieu:  It would but the storage service and revocation 
  service are both underrepresented right now
Dmitri Zagidulin:  That makes sense but i mention verifier since 
  many won't store the vc at all
<michael_herman_(trusted_digital_web)> What is a Role: 
  https://pubs.opengroup.org/architecture/archimate3-doc/chap08.html#_Toc10045369
David Chadwick: +1 Dmitry
<michael_herman_(trusted_digital_web)> An example: 
  https://pubs.opengroup.org/architecture/archimate3-doc/chap08.html#_Toc10045372
Adrian Gropper:  I understand the role of holder and issuer are 
  separate roles but from authz perspective they could be combined 
  in some instances. when we have distinction between device bound 
  identity and biometric bound identity the opportunity arises for 
  combining issuer and holder as theres no need for device bound 
  identity
  ... when liveness is required that can also fit into authz 
  protocol
  ... where the resource owner needs to be in control of authz 
  policies instead of storage that is where my perspective is
Joe Andrieu:  Slight shift in language might help me understand
<orie> this picture does not include Issuer... it assumes that 
  the holder already has a VC... we don't care how that happened.
  ... any entity may be in any role at any time. that flexibility 
  is innate. any of these services could be monolithic. reality is 
  for our API important things are where do we provide APIs that 
  can have substitutability
  ... an entity can have multiple roles. trying to find API that 
  enables substitutability
<mprorock> I would love for Joe to be able to walk through his 
  and Eric's work on this use case, then have a discussion about it 
  honestly
<manu_sporny> ok, we can do that mprorock
<mprorock> with a big caveat that we are talking system to system 
  use cases here
Adrian Gropper:  I understand substitutability give challenges 
  across trust domains. when discussing issues around delegation it 
  would be helpful to our conversation if we considered when 
  substitutability is important from a human rights vs vendor lock 
  in
<orie> i'm not sure why we are allowing the unrelated 
  conversations to persist in this work...its confusing and 
  harmful.
Mike Prorock: +1 Orie
Manu Sporny:  Lets go through the whole flow
Joe Andrieu:  From supply chain with no human being using the 
  browser to drive the interaction
<orie> Imagine a CRON Job that shares data between 2 web 
  servers...
  ... 1. holder starts up their app, 2. app decides we need to 
  send a VP, 3. notifies verifier data ready
  ... 4 evaluates what to do w/ that
5. Constructs a data package (domain and challenge)
Mike Prorock: +1 Manu - that is a pretty good way of thinking 
  about it
Holder gets VC
(From storage service)
  ... app needs some notion of its own keys to invoke their 
  actions
<orie> not sure why we are talking about other CCG work items 
  like web KMS... that work item is not required.
  ... signs vp, sends to verfier app
  ... verifier app talks to it's verifier service
  ... verification comes back, verifier app evaluates business 
  rules
Mike Varley: +1 To the Service abstracting key management
  ... stores the VC (may not be relevant but for symmetry)
<mprorock> @orie - agreed, basically some key management - not a 
  specific one or protocol
  ... holder app gets message back "we got presentation"
<orie> I like to model this as 2 network requests between 2 web 
  servers, where they are started by a cron job.
  ... holder app records submission
<orie> revocation status is not relevant or needed.
  ... something that came up: who is doing revocation status 
  check? i think should be verifier service
<manu_sporny> @orie @mprorock -- I believe JoeA was just using 
  WebKMS as an example of key management, not a requirement.
<orie> yes he was, its not required... nor is revocation.
  ... i think we need another loop in here to show who is going 
  to check revocation status
  ... no authz in here
<orie> link to use cases.
<orie> FFS
Manu Sporny:  Steps 1 through 6 i believe is the start workflow 
  use cases. if that's true this whole thing is chapi flow as well. 
  thoughts?
<orie> this is the chapi flow.
<orie> we designed it to be like CHAPI flows...
Mike Prorock: +1 Orie
<orie> which are actually 
  https://w3c-ccg.github.io/vp-request-spec/ flows...
<orie> 6 months later...
Joe Andrieu:  I think that's right. most of the difference was 
  the idea of data ready going to the service where really that is 
  clicking on jobs website in the chapi flow
Manu Sporny:  If that's reality that's great
<orie> literally shaking..
<orie> lol
Ted Thibodeau:  On the flow for who checks status, both holder 
  and verifier should do it
  ... i don't want to submit a revoked vc if i can get a new vc 
  that i can submit instead
<manu_sporny> q
<orie> thats because all VP flows require domain and challenge to 
  be exchange prior to VP construction and communication.
David Chadwick:  In openid connect: i can see how this maps into 
  OIDC. message 3 would be the user talking to the resource to say 
  i need access. message 6 would be the resource sending the 
  presentation request which would detail the VCs it wanted
  ... the user would retrieve VCs and then 13 would submit VP. 19 
  would say you have access go ahead
Orie Steele: +1 David
<orie> all the VP flows are similar
<orie> since they all require getting a domain and challenge from 
  the verifier.
Joe Andrieu:  One of the shifts here is notification data ready 
  describes data to be required
David Chadwick:  In oidc has nothing to do with the data has to 
  do with VC claims
Joe Andrieu:  And step 3 in supply chain is saying here are the 
  claims i have available
<manu_sporny> /me ghost queue
<orie> No, its 2 apps talking to eachother... they are apps... 
  not people.
Mike Prorock: +1 Orie
Adrian Gropper:  In supply chain flow, difference between VP and 
  VC is liveness detection a concept or is it assumed that there is 
  none but only detection of holder that is meant to be the 
  difference
  ... you can sign a challenge w/ liveness or just by signing
Joe Andrieu:  That is the primary difference, i wish the supply 
  chain had anchored the VP to the current user but that is not how 
  it has been fleshed out
Joe Andrieu:  Problem domain does not contain liveness detection
<orie> it turns out that APIs exchange data... without people 
  being detected as being alive, or involved.
Mpro: that is the individual flow
<dmitri_zagidulin> I think it might be worth clarifying that VPs 
  only need challenge & domain when used for authentication. But 
  not really for other purposes.
Adrian Gropper:  There is difference between supply chain and 
  general VP use case
Manu Sporny:  What are next steps?
Joe Andrieu:  There are some iterations. 1. revocation check. 2. 
  refresh check
Joe Andrieu:  Our flows don't show where those things happen 
  currently
  ... working through an updated CHAPI flow using this language. 
  should give us an architectural diagram
  ... we are close to having something spec ready
Manu Sporny:  Thanks to people who did this work
  ... is there anything to do w/ CHAPI flow?
<orie> here is the flow with lots of abstraction:
Joe Andrieu:  Same sort of walkthrough and look at differences. 
  how are we going to talk about authz at these levels. often 
  holder authenticates to app using email
Joe Andrieu:  Lets do chapi and that can flow into how are these 
  layers secured
Manu Sporny:  PRs is next item
<mprorock> traditional enterprise API use cases for VCs is 
  basically what we are dealing with to expand on Orie's comment

Topic: Pull Request Review

Manu Sporny: https://github.com/w3c-ccg/vc-http-api/pull/229
Manu Sporny:  This has been merged, there was agreement
Manu Sporny:  Specifically call out basic authentication don't 
  use
  ... sets precedent things we don't want to use
Manu Sporny: https://github.com/w3c-ccg/vc-http-api/pull/230
Manu Sporny:  Orie, you wanted language to a MAY and adrian wants 
  MUST. proposed was SHOULD
<orie> Nobody SHOULD be required to implement something that is 
  not possible to implement in their chosen programming language.
<tallted> orie - that would be a justification to NOT do the 
  thing!
Manu Sporny:  Orie could you live with a SHOULD?
Orie Steele:  I will object to language that uses SHOULD to imply 
  people will use something that's not possible to use
  ... this specific text: i will object to PR if it contains 
  SHOULD or MUST
Ted Thibodeau:  We are using SHOULD in the RFC explanation: do it 
  unless you have a good reason not to
  ... MAY to warn the other side you might do something
<orie> MAY does nothing... exactly... better to do nothing... 
  than to do something harmful.
  ... SHOULD is a strong do it please but you're not in violation 
  if you dont
<orie> it is impossible to render GNAP RAR in OAS3.0... its not 
  supported.
Adrian Gropper:  I don't think we're ready to talk about this 
  because: 1. we can not reply to a human rights argument using 
  economic reasons. 2. not sure what is impossible, for example UMA 
  we built delegation onto OAuth
<justin_richer> Orie then you have bad tools ü§∑‚Äç‚ôÄÔ∏è
  ... we need to have human rights conversation in regards to 
  delegation
<mprorock> that is fine, but let's take that to the mailing list, 
  not this work item for now
<justin_richer> Also, I adapted it to do just that, since it's 
  open source. It just doesn't allow plugins because of the 
  software design.
<orie> I have tools that enterprises are using... i think you 
  might have a spec that nobody has adopted yet.
<justin_richer> Orie you mean VC-HTTP-API? :)
  ... its premature to talk about this
<orie> yes
<orie> : )
Manu Sporny:  Agreed impossible is a stretch
  ... the SHOULD is implementable
<tallted> "very difficult, very expensive" are sufficient 
  arguments against doing a SHOULD. it need not be "impossible"
<orie> ZCAPs are also  not a standard and also not supported by 
  OAS3.0.
  ... we are dealing with something incredibly prestandard now
<tallted> also, SHOULD is the historical compromise between MAY 
  and MUST
  ... adrian, that goes beyond VC API
<orie> I'm a -1 to doing things that OAS3.0 does not support.
Manu Sporny:  Keep discussion going in PR
<justin_richer> I'm -1 to pegging an emerging standard to 
  OAS3.0's capability set
<orie> if GNAP gets added to OAS3.0 we are good to use it.
<justin_richer> like, any emerging standard
<orie> we agreed to use OAS3.0... if we want to take that back I 
  am happy to start from scratch again :)
Mike Prorock: +1 Orie - i think OAS3 is a good measure for now
Manu Sporny:  Editors will shift the authz delegation to a draft

Topic: ReSpec OAS Autogenerator Plugin

Manu Sporny: https://github.com/w3c-ccg/vc-http-api/pull/233
<davidc> I wanted to say that we may have different authz 
  delegation rules for the different APIs (verifier, issuer and 
  holder) and the current text does not differentiate
  ... respec auto-generator from OAS file
<justin_richer> OAS3 is a tool -- treating it like a requirement 
  is putting shadow dependencies into the spec, and that's just bad 
  design
  ... this thing existed as OAS files before this spec existed. 
  desire to keep OAS
<orie> thanks for your opinion justin, but we agreed  to use 
  OAS3.0, that point was already resolved.
  ... there was no mechanism to inject OAS into respec
<justin_richer> Using it and depending on it are different things 
  and you're hiding behind that to support your argument.
  ... code that pulls in OAS and renders into respec
  ... schema is rendered directly from OAS. it's json and hard to 
  read. renderer needs to be updated
<orie> Justin, i'm not hiding behind OAS3.0... i am using adopted 
  industry standards to strengthen our work item, and its potential 
  for adoption.
<mprorock> @manu - this is great
  ... the hope is this a general solution that this will work for 
  any REST api within CCG
<orie> @manu looks great!
  ... it would be awesome if folks would help me with the code
<mike_varley> very cool @manu !
Justin Richer:  Thanks for that its great work
  ... this negates any arguments against things that don't fit 
  within OAS. we created our own renderer....
<orie> Justin, rendering a standard format is not the same as 
  extending it too support new schemes... you should read the 
  OAS3.0 spec.
<justin_richer> @manu I wrote a renderer for OAS that handles RAR 
  data structures and I'm happy to share it
<mprorock> thanks all!
https://w3c-ccg.github.io/vc-api-use-cases/
Orie Steele: 
  https://swagger.io/docs/specification/authentication/
Manu Sporny:  Thats it for today, thank you joe and eric for 
  diagram
.. Reminder i won't be here next week markus will be doing issue 
  processing
