[2024-09-16T14:45:11.223Z]	<Ildiko_Mazar> agenda: https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-vc-edu/2024Sep/0000.html
[2024-09-16T14:45:59.223Z]	<Ildiko_Mazar> Good morning, good afternoon everyone, welcome to today's W3C Verifiable Credentials for Education task force call, on Monday, September the 16th. Let's get started with the housekeeping items. IP Note: Anyone can participate in these calls. However, all substantive contributions to any Credentials Community Group Work Items must originate from members of the CCG with full IPR agreements signed. You can find the link to this in the meeting invites, but please note that you'll need to have a W3C account, but if you don't have one yet, it is also easy to register one online. Moving on to call notes. Please note that these meetings are recorded. We have a robot transcriber and we also make audio and video recordings, that are archived and available online. If you want to speak, please raise your hand, or add yourself to the queue by typing “q+” in the chat. And please be brief if you have a question to ask, we want to maximise the time for conversations. Thank you. Now to Introductions & Reintroductions. If we have any new people in the call, or somebody would like to reintroduce themselves, please feel free to take the floor. If nobody wants to take the floor, we can move on to announcements and reminders. Anyone has events or things that happened that people should be aware of, again, please queue yourself up and share the news with us. Now to the main agenda topic, that is Bridging Schemas & Translating Data. I would like to welcome and invite our guest speakers Oran Dan and Jelle Millenaar to take the floor.
[2024-09-16T14:55:42.765Z]	<Ildiko_Mazar>	present+
[2024-09-16T14:59:00.715Z]	<Steven_Crawford>	present+
[2024-09-16T14:59:14.598Z]	<Andy_Griebel>	present+
[2024-09-16T14:59:46.791Z]	<Sheela_Kiiskila>	present+
[2024-09-16T14:59:56.723Z]	<Jelle_Millenaar_[Impierce]>	present+
[2024-09-16T15:00:45.243Z]	<Susan_Stroud>	present+
[2024-09-16T15:01:03.604Z]	<Oran_Dan>	present+
[2024-09-16T15:01:10.454Z]	<James_Chartrand>	present+
[2024-09-16T15:01:39.552Z]	<Luisa>	present+
[2024-09-16T15:01:45.413Z]	<Dmitri_Zagidulin>	present+
[2024-09-16T15:01:48.033Z]	<Nate_Otto>	present+
[2024-09-16T15:01:56.119Z]	<Phil_Barker>	present+
[2024-09-16T15:02:05.054Z]	<Deb_Everhart_(Credential_Engine)>	present+
[2024-09-16T15:02:25.807Z]	<Eric_Shepherd>	present+
[2024-09-16T15:02:25.987Z]	<Phil_Barker>	present+
[2024-09-16T15:02:30.062Z]	<Simone_Ravaioli>	present+
[2024-09-16T15:02:41.613Z]	<PL_T3>	present+
[2024-09-16T15:02:56.497Z]	<Transcriber>	scribe+
[2024-09-16T15:02:56.497Z]	<Transcriber>	Meeting: education
[2024-09-16T15:04:00.578Z]	<Justin_Cooke_EC>	present+
[2024-09-16T15:04:03.946Z]	<Sharon_Leu>	present+
[2024-09-16T15:04:15.095Z]	<Andy_Griebel>	present+
[2024-09-16T15:04:38.020Z]	<PL>	present+
[2024-09-16T15:04:45.022Z]	<Ronald_Ham_(SURF)>	present+
[2024-09-16T15:05:15.560Z]	<Susan_Stroud>	q
[2024-09-16T15:05:34.394Z]	<TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com)>	present+
[2024-09-16T15:05:46.699Z]	<Phil_Barker>	Is anyone speaking? I hear nothing.
[2024-09-16T15:05:49.727Z]	<PL>	I'll be attending virtually, but not in person
[2024-09-16T15:05:50.131Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	present+
[2024-09-16T15:06:28.623Z]	<Ildiko_Mazar>	@Phile Barker, there is a conversation you should hear.
[2024-09-16T15:06:44.572Z]	<Phil_Barker>	Thanks Ildiko
[2024-09-16T15:06:50.566Z]	<Jeff_O_/_HumanOS>	present+
[2024-09-16T15:06:55.950Z]	<Andy_Griebel>	present+
[2024-09-16T15:06:58.354Z]	<Simone_Ravaioli_(low_band>	present+
[2024-09-16T15:07:07.719Z]	<Alex_H>	present+
[2024-09-16T15:07:08.132Z]	<Chandi>	present+
[2024-09-16T15:07:11.094Z]	<Timg>	present+
[2024-09-16T15:07:32.765Z]	<Phil_Barker>	present+
[2024-09-16T15:08:31.587Z]	<Transcriber>	scribe+
[2024-09-16T15:08:31.587Z]	<Transcriber>	Meeting: education
[2024-09-16T15:08:50.276Z]	<Ronald_Ham_(SURF)>	present+
[2024-09-16T15:09:27.590Z]	<Phil_Barker>	present+
[2024-09-16T15:09:31.887Z]	<Simone_Ravaioli_(low_band>	present+
[2024-09-16T15:10:35.282Z]	<Simone_Ravaioli>	present+
[2024-09-16T15:10:57.669Z]	<Naomi>	present+
[2024-09-16T15:11:21.665Z]	<Andy_Griebel>	present+
[2024-09-16T15:12:08.398Z]	<Colin_Reynolds,_Ed_Design_Lab>	present+
[2024-09-16T15:12:27.733Z]	<Ronald_Ham>	present+
[2024-09-16T15:16:44.978Z]	<Chandi>	present+
[2024-09-16T15:24:00.259Z]	<Laura_Paglione>	present+
[2024-09-16T15:30:45.509Z]	<Transcriber>	Nate_Otto: Uh hi uh Nate here um thanks for the presentation this is a pretty cool exciting um.
[2024-09-16T15:31:09.016Z]	<Transcriber>	Nate_Otto: Technology that mode I contributed to the mapping on the desm project in the spring that maybe you you pulled this particular mapping and I was um just curious if you had any additional thoughts about uh the desm tool or its road map like for example I don't even know how to extract the mapping file that you used as an input here um.
[2024-09-16T15:31:20.067Z]	<Transcriber>	Nate_Otto: Was there any like difficulty or or enthusiasm around working with desam is it the right tool to do this sort of mappings that are in input to this project.
[2024-09-16T15:32:32.867Z]	<Phil_Barker>	@Nate, the public output is a new feature, it's at the top of the mapping page: https://desm.credentialengine.org/mappings-list?cp=6&abstractClass=Assertion
[2024-09-16T15:33:19.095Z]	<Transcriber>	Nate_Otto: Great thank you for that.
[2024-09-16T15:34:21.728Z]	<Sheela_Kiiskila>	q+
[2024-09-16T15:34:49.187Z]	<Sharon_Leu>	Wondering which are the obv3 elements that don't exist on the other end?
[2024-09-16T15:35:17.777Z]	<Oran_Dan>	present+
[2024-09-16T15:36:13.308Z]	<Transcriber>	Sheela_Kiiskila: Uh thank you for the wonderful presentation and uh uh maybe this is a wrong question to ask but I'll ask anyway so you you said this is based on um verifiable Elm model and and verifiable credentials uh I was wondering uh we use European digital credentials uh to give to the students and uh is it possible to map from the EDC if we want to use open Badges and give a badge you know as a progression or or or uh uh along with the EDC is that a possibility to just when we issue the EDC we can also use a mapping tool to extract a badge and issue.
[2024-09-16T15:36:29.546Z]	<PL>	We don't hear Oran
[2024-09-16T15:36:44.515Z]	<Ildiko_Mazar>	:-O
[2024-09-16T15:36:45.178Z]	<Phil_Barker>	I hear him!
[2024-09-16T15:37:10.679Z]	<PL>	Thanks Phil B. not sure how I lost audio
[2024-09-16T15:37:10.841Z]	<Ildiko_Mazar>	Me too.
[2024-09-16T15:37:26.690Z]	<Transcriber>	Sheela_Kiiskila: Thank you yeah not to issue but once we issue we EC and issue them it would be nice to extract information from it and also issue a badge without uh doing it.
[2024-09-16T15:37:38.048Z]	<Transcriber>	Sheela_Kiiskila: Okay thank you.
[2024-09-16T15:37:55.882Z]	<Phil_Long>	present+
[2024-09-16T15:38:27.396Z]	<Ildiko_Mazar>	That's an interesting question in itself - extracting data from a signed credential and resign in a different format.
[2024-09-16T15:39:16.937Z]	<Ronald_Ham>	@ Iloilo that is exactly what we are trying to achieve in DC4EU with all the partners in our Working package
[2024-09-16T15:39:42.161Z]	<Ronald_Ham>	I meant @Ildiko
[2024-09-16T15:40:03.690Z]	<Ildiko_Mazar>	:+1:
[2024-09-16T15:41:18.411Z]	<Phil_Barker>	q
[2024-09-16T15:41:22.988Z]	<Phil_Barker>	q+
[2024-09-16T15:41:30.336Z]	<Deb_Everhart_(Credential_Engine)>	we are happy to collaborate, and if you are talking to Phil Barker, he is working directly with us
[2024-09-16T15:42:27.244Z]	<Deb_Everhart_(Credential_Engine)>	love seeing that this work is expanding and exploring additional use cases!
[2024-09-16T15:42:45.094Z]	<Phil_Barker>	q-
[2024-09-16T15:42:57.949Z]	<Sheela_Kiiskila>	q-
[2024-09-16T15:43:03.385Z]	<Transcriber>	Sheela_Kiiskila: Sorry I forgot to remove myself from the queue.
[2024-09-16T15:43:32.756Z]	<Deb_Everhart_(Credential_Engine)>	I would think that this tool is useful for "translating" a holder's credentials even if they are not re-issued in a different schema
[2024-09-16T15:43:51.902Z]	<Jelle_Millenaar_[Impierce]>	q+
[2024-09-16T15:44:12.055Z]	<Transcriber>	Jelle_Millenaar_[Impierce]: Oh yeah sorry I uh shop also from in technology that did this project um I just wanted to um mention that we're very happy to collaborate with this project that's really our goal.
[2024-09-16T15:44:53.773Z]	<Ildiko_Mazar>	If you are joining the 1EdTech conference, the session I was referring to is on Friday 11-Oct. Read more at https://web.cvent.com/event/7fa940bb-8b8e-42f0-b02e-baf9e909ff1c/websitePage:b02ad9d9-260b-4530-bdd2-b863dbc3921f?session=a095db2d-5234-471e-b3c0-48e5ec15902b&shareLink=true
[2024-09-16T15:44:54.408Z]	<Transcriber>	Jelle_Millenaar_[Impierce]: Um the debt is already uh putting some really uh good points in the chat about how this uh can be used and is can work in several occasions and that's exactly how we view this as well that this can be a tool that brings communities uh of different issuers and verifiers more together because you no longer need to think about the technical implementation of supporting multiple formats right like this kind of tool is trying to take away those problems and make sure that if there's a community really focused on creating Elm credentials and another 1 on open badges that they're not limited by these 2 different standards but rather that we can start to.
[2024-09-16T15:44:55.671Z]	<Deb_Everhart_(Credential_Engine)>	+1!
[2024-09-16T15:44:56.638Z]	<Transcriber>	Jelle_Millenaar_[Impierce]: Combine and interact with each other.
[2024-09-16T15:45:30.341Z]	<Transcriber>	Jelle_Millenaar_[Impierce]: The similarly we also would like to do that with this kind of project right try to utilize the maps that has made and not reinvented ourselves and work with other solutions that are out there uh and combine that and make it something more promising and more and more valuable for all of all of us so if you're interested in this project and you would like to further talk to us about it or collaborate collaborate with us uh on that that's an open invite for everyone and feel free to uh to contact us uh at any time.
[2024-09-16T15:45:44.461Z]	<Jelle_Millenaar_[Impierce]>	q-
[2024-09-16T15:47:10.442Z]	<Transcriber>	Jelle_Millenaar_[Impierce]: Yeah thank you for that question as well uh so for now uh we have indeed uh finished the first version of this uh of this project as far as it is funded um we absolutely have the intention to uh maintain it and expand it a little bit and uh uh completely integrated into our own product so you can indeed not just uh uh convert a credential but then also reissue it using our software uh but in the end uh there there still a lot more opportunities that can be done with this um and yeah for that we are absolutely looking for partners or grants uh grant opportunities to expand on this because yeah there's a lot of cool ideas out there um but yeah we're an open source uh development organization so we're looking for those opportunities in their.
[2024-09-16T15:47:13.217Z]	<Transcriber>	Jelle_Millenaar_[Impierce]: Yes so thanks for that question.
[2024-09-16T15:47:20.440Z]	<Dmitri_Zagidulin>	do you mind adding links to the Github repos for these tools?
[2024-09-16T15:47:59.009Z]	<Oran_Dan>	https://github.com/impierce/credential-converter
[2024-09-16T15:48:10.860Z]	<Dmitri_Zagidulin>	thanks! :)
[2024-09-16T15:48:16.383Z]	<Jelle_Millenaar_[Impierce]>	Coverter: https://github.com/impierce/credential-converter

European Identiy Wallet: https://github.com/impierce/identity-wallet

SSI Agent: https://github.com/impierce/ssi-agent
[2024-09-16T15:48:25.690Z]	<Ildiko_Mazar>	Star already given after first encounter :-)
[2024-09-16T15:48:34.655Z]	<Transcriber>	Jelle_Millenaar_[Impierce]: I just added some of the other repos we've also briefly mentioned our European identity wallet and also the identity agent that can be used for issuing these type of credentials um so.
[2024-09-16T15:48:34.749Z]	<Dmitri_Zagidulin>	perfect!
[2024-09-16T15:48:39.094Z]	<Transcriber>	Jelle_Millenaar_[Impierce]: If you're interested in that as well the links are there.
[2024-09-16T15:50:04.992Z]	<Transcriber>	Sheela_Kiiskila: I was clapping and I think it took mistook me.
[2024-09-16T15:50:13.295Z]	<Dmitri_Zagidulin>	present+
[2024-09-16T15:50:19.193Z]	<Sharon_Leu>	Thank you!
[2024-09-16T15:50:26.684Z]	<Deb_Everhart_(Credential_Engine)>	thanks all!
[2024-09-16T15:50:54.023Z]	<Sheela_Kiiskila>	thank you
