[2024-10-07T14:45:11.223Z]	<Ildiko_Mazar> agenda: https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-vc-edu/2024Oct/0000.html
[2024-10-07T14:59:48.414Z]	<Dmitri_Zagidulin>	present+
[2024-10-07T14:59:49.003Z]	<Stuart_Freeman>	present+
[2024-10-07T14:59:49.562Z]	<Alex_H>	present+
[2024-10-07T14:59:49.881Z]	<Sheela_Kiiskila>	present+
[2024-10-07T14:59:51.704Z]	<Stuart_Freeman>	present+
[2024-10-07T14:59:51.889Z]	<Ildiko_Mazar>	present+
[2024-10-07T15:00:08.102Z]	<Stuart_Freeman>	present+
[2024-10-07T15:00:24.137Z]	<Andy_Griebel>	present+
[2024-10-07T15:00:24.769Z]	<Hiroyuki_Sano,_Japan>	present+
[2024-10-07T15:00:39.243Z]	<Sharon_Leu_|_JFF_Labs>	present+
[2024-10-07T15:00:57.424Z]	<TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com)>	present+
[2024-10-07T15:01:13.507Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	present+
[2024-10-07T15:01:19.121Z]	<Eric_Shepherd>	present+
[2024-10-07T15:01:29.287Z]	<Alex_H>	present+
[2024-10-07T15:01:32.458Z]	<Andy_Griebel>	present+
[2024-10-07T15:01:36.681Z]	<Adam_(AuvoDigital)>	present+
[2024-10-07T15:01:38.638Z]	<Transcriber>	scribe+
[2024-10-07T15:01:38.639Z]	<Transcriber>	Meeting: education
[2024-10-07T15:02:01.935Z]	<Steven_Crawford>	present+
[2024-10-07T15:02:06.207Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Zagidulin: That was uh those of you who just joined I'm going to give it another minute for people to assemble and we'll get started.
[2024-10-07T15:02:31.579Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Zagidulin: All right so it's 2 minutes past uh we can uh we can get started uh so welcome everyone to this week's VC edu task force.
[2024-10-07T15:02:51.142Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Zagidulin: Uh community group call uh these calls are free anyone can participate if you're going to make any substantive contributions to any ccg work items you have to be a member of the ccg and sign the uh IPR agreement uh which is essentially for patent control protection.
[2024-10-07T15:02:56.881Z]	<James_Chartrand>	present+
[2024-10-07T15:03:01.127Z]	<Sharon_Leu_|_JFF_Labs>	present+
[2024-10-07T15:03:01.314Z]	<PL>	present+
[2024-10-07T15:03:05.289Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Zagidulin: Also make sure uh you have a w3c account and all that if you haven't signed up already and you want to contribute to the specs uh please let me know or any of the co-chairs and we'll get you set up.
[2024-10-07T15:03:27.729Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Zagidulin: The calls are recorded uh minutes and audio is going to be archived in the meetings repo of the ccg uh we use jitsi chat to queue up so type Q Plus in the chat or raise your hand uh here in jitsi and it'll it'll kick you up automatically.
[2024-10-07T15:03:35.812Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Zagidulin: Right uh let's go through introductions and reintroductions does anybody new here on the call that want to introduce themselves.
[2024-10-07T15:03:42.440Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Zagidulin: If you need to raise your hand or just speak up.
[2024-10-07T15:03:59.346Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Zagidulin: All right uh next up we have Community announcements does anybody have uh announcements or reminders for the.
[2024-10-07T15:04:10.475Z]	<Sharon_Leu_|_JFF_Labs>	present+
[2024-10-07T15:04:15.051Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Zagidulin: Here's the uh General page for upcoming events for those.
[2024-10-07T15:04:20.307Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Zagidulin: Uh for those unfamiliar.
[2024-10-07T15:04:23.251Z]	<Dmitri_Zagidulin>	https://w3c-ccg.github.io/announcements/
[2024-10-07T15:04:33.583Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Zagidulin: I know we have um internet identity Workshop IBEW coming up at the end of October.
[2024-10-07T15:04:35.269Z]	<Sharon_Leu_|_JFF_Labs>	present+
[2024-10-07T15:04:41.855Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Zagidulin: For those of you uh who haven't been uh it's fantastic 3-day unconference that brings together a lot of.
[2024-10-07T15:04:50.496Z]	<PL>	And ePIC at the beginning of Nov. in Paris.
[2024-10-07T15:04:57.315Z]	<Ildiko_Mazar>	present+
[2024-10-07T15:05:01.785Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Zagidulin: Company startups individual contributors from uh governments big and small startups uh giant companies a lot of people working on um specs that are relevant to this group so verify credentials decentralized identifiers storage.
[2024-10-07T15:05:06.720Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Zagidulin: Uh the lot so highly recommended if you haven't been.
[2024-10-07T15:05:12.050Z]	<Kim_Duffy>	present+
[2024-10-07T15:05:20.074Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Zagidulin: So this week uh any any other uh announcements.
[2024-10-07T15:05:39.502Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Zagidulin: All right so this week uh we're going to be talking about the diff hackathon and I see Kim has just joined us so uh Kim without too much further Preamble uh I want to hand it over to.
[2024-10-07T15:05:45.255Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Zagidulin: If your audio connected.
[2024-10-07T15:05:46.183Z]	<PL>	ePIC - https://epic.openrecognition.org/
[2024-10-07T15:05:46.390Z]	<Sharon_Leu_|_JFF_Labs>	present+
[2024-10-07T15:05:53.612Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	Hi All - I'm here listening but sick today so staying off audio
[2024-10-07T15:06:05.457Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Zagidulin: Uh Carrie has uh added in chat that uh.
[2024-10-07T15:06:07.887Z]	<Transcriber>	Kim_Duffy: Has found it sorry it didn't.
[2024-10-07T15:06:08.977Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Zagidulin: Oh no problem.
[2024-10-07T15:06:12.207Z]	<Sharon_Leu_|_JFF_Labs>	present+
[2024-10-07T15:06:14.054Z]	<Ildiko_Mazar>	present+
[2024-10-07T15:06:14.409Z]	<Transcriber>	Kim_Duffy: I've been having some issues this morning getting uh.
[2024-10-07T15:06:20.342Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Zagidulin: No problem I'm glad to have you.
[2024-10-07T15:06:23.483Z]	<Transcriber>	Kim_Duffy: Thank you thanks for giving me the time.
[2024-10-07T15:06:27.034Z]	<Transcriber>	Kim_Duffy: Um let me see if I can pull it up now.
[2024-10-07T15:06:36.544Z]	<Kim_Duffy>	https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1ExHPu2sAphNKDvZ8Wo6gRSJPeHbjX7Ks/edit#slide=id.p1
[2024-10-07T15:06:37.054Z]	<Transcriber>	Kim_Duffy: And I'll share I guess I didn't set the permissions broadly enough so I'll share this right after.
[2024-10-07T15:06:37.097Z]	<Sharon_Leu_|_JFF_Labs>	present+
[2024-10-07T15:06:48.036Z]	<Transcriber>	Kim_Duffy: The meeting or the sorry set the permissions correctly right after sending this for reference so let me pull up the slide deck.
[2024-10-07T15:07:28.312Z]	<Transcriber>	Kim_Duffy: Okay so we are here today to talk about the future of education and Workforce challenge set and uh this is a track that sponsored by jmf and DCC and it's part of the diff hackathon and for context so the diff hackathon is um it just started so it's not too late to get involved and in general our key objectives are to promote interoperability and Adoption of decentralized identity standards.
[2024-10-07T15:07:45.703Z]	<Transcriber>	Kim_Duffy: We are really focused on what transformation is possible when you are building on technology that uses decentralized identity principles and human Centric Solutions the things we've been really building towards many years now.
[2024-10-07T15:08:10.290Z]	<Transcriber>	Kim_Duffy: And then also demonstrate real world use cases the other thing is that we're very keen to promote awareness and growth and alignment of communities within focusing on on similar challenges so we have a great set of sponsors this year including DCC and JF Labs who've made the uh education future of Education Workforce track possible.
[2024-10-07T15:08:11.964Z]	<Timg>	present+
[2024-10-07T15:08:16.194Z]	<Transcriber>	Kim_Duffy: Now before we go into the details just some um.
[2024-10-07T15:08:29.108Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Zagidulin: Kim super quick uh super quick interrupt uh the slide deck uh which is so kindly shared is is Access Control do you mind uh if you or I can also do it uh share it to view.
[2024-10-07T15:08:30.731Z]	<Transcriber>	Kim_Duffy: Yeah I'm doing it right now.
[2024-10-07T15:08:35.757Z]	<Transcriber>	Kim_Duffy: I just needed a break in talking so yeah.
[2024-10-07T15:09:26.674Z]	<Transcriber>	Kim_Duffy: So in and then for context um you know a lot of the work in the VC edu Community comes from our sort of shared interest in pushing forward as Society or decentralized identity standards and education and Workforce and so Sharon and Carrie have been um heavily or uniquely involved in pushing for the jmf plugfest which has been huge for promoting actual demonstrable interoperability in decentralized identity Solutions so you know we've all been building for many years on these base standards like verifiable credentials decentralized identifiers take your pick of of um issuance and exchange protocols.
[2024-10-07T15:09:32.958Z]	<Transcriber>	Kim_Duffy: But the work of defining profiles and um enabling.
[2024-10-07T15:09:36.487Z]	<Transcriber>	Kim_Duffy: People from different organizations to actually.
[2024-10-07T15:10:37.598Z]	<Transcriber>	Kim_Duffy: Um Implement against the profiles thereby showing here's a wallet that actually can talk to multiple issuers can talk to multiple verifiers um Etc that work has been huge and actually demonstrating the the uh promise of interoperability that we've been um you know designing towards so through jmf plugfest again that's Sharon and Carrie of DCC have been doing the a lot of the great work there um have helped push forward Open Standards and education and Workforce it uses uh VCS and um specifically the open badges 3.0 standard that this group The VCU Community has been instrumental in uh aligning towards so getting the VC's getting open badges to be a VC in this work of this community um some of the standards that are used in jmf plug.
[2024-10-07T15:10:51.732Z]	<Transcriber>	Kim_Duffy: Stack the open ID based stack and so being able to demonstrate that multiple um issuers relying parties Etc can um Implement uh interoperability.
[2024-10-07T15:11:09.698Z]	<Transcriber>	Kim_Duffy: And then some of the artifacts output from that include the credential issuance and verification playgrounds um I yeah I think it's called credential playground or credentials something uh there have been wallet implementations and schemas that are output from that.
[2024-10-07T15:11:15.110Z]	<Transcriber>	Kim_Duffy: So what we wanted to do with the future of education and Workforce track.
[2024-10-07T15:11:17.448Z]	<Transcriber>	Kim_Duffy:  sort of.
[2024-10-07T15:12:18.524Z]	<Transcriber>	Kim_Duffy: Build on the GFF success meaning um we've already done or this community has already done all the hard work of figuring out what are those profiles that can achieve interoperability and what are these tool sets and starting points of schemas so many people when they're coming into a decentralized identity hackathon they're figuring things out from scratch do I use uh you know varamo or do I use some other tool set and how do I make a verifiable credential and how do I piece together all of this so 1 advantage of all the work that's done with jmf is that participants can just refer to the profiles the tool sets and everything and so when talking to to Sharon and Carrie about this we were really excited by the idea of we can use the hackathon to push forward the work of the jmf plug.
[2024-10-07T15:12:39.393Z]	<Geun-Hyung_Kim>	present+
[2024-10-07T15:13:03.755Z]	<Transcriber>	Kim_Duffy: Also that participants would tremendously benefit from it because they would be able to uh they'd have a leg up kind of in terms of the ability to start knowing like these are the tools that I use but then also they can be more confident that the solutions that they're building are useful to this community in that whatever they're building might actually be a plug going to uh um employment systems um you know think things like this or or creating entirely new uh say plugins to to um um employment and hiring systems so.
[2024-10-07T15:13:12.378Z]	<Transcriber>	Kim_Duffy: The way it's just divided is as a few sort of tracks within the overall challenge that.
[2024-10-07T15:13:25.340Z]	<PL>	Credential playground: https://vcplayground.org/
[2024-10-07T15:13:27.713Z]	<Transcriber>	Kim_Duffy: 1 is called verifiable learner worker IDs and Records we we'll get into details of each of them uh the next is powerful new VC tools another is feature enhancement of the the.
[2024-10-07T15:13:41.203Z]	<Transcriber>	Kim_Duffy: Sort of artifacts developed by this community and then the last 1 is a bonus design Challenge and establishing credibility in digital credentials so where the digital credentials meet the human world.
[2024-10-07T15:13:44.179Z]	<Transcriber>	Kim_Duffy: So to get into details.
[2024-10-07T15:13:45.963Z]	<Alex_H>	present+
[2024-10-07T15:14:40.356Z]	<Sharon_Leu_|_JFF_Labs>	Based on data from our national job seeker survey, these are the credentials that job seekers most wanted in their employment wallet.
[2024-10-07T15:14:44.892Z]	<Transcriber>	Kim_Duffy: The Challenge 1 is very open-ended it's saying well all of these have as a requirement to use the jmf profiles and to if desired use the the tool sets that were developed but the first challenge is to say you know if you have a world like this where Learners and workers can control their identification like student IDs and other records a history of employment things like that what can you build and so the idea here is to let participants use their imagination to build some kind of tools where people um can achieve real economic um uh Mobility or you know get a new opportunity from a job find some um educational courses that they need to reach the next level so basically use their imagination to demonstrate what's possible.
[2024-10-07T15:15:17.980Z]	<Transcriber>	Kim_Duffy: Challenge set 2 is to design tools that we know are possible but just you know would be tremendous for actual takeoff and um you know with the the opportunity to hackathon it's a good opportunity for people to say like okay here's exactly a tool that would be useful build it for us and it will enable all these opportunities so uh 1 is to implement multiple language support.
[2024-10-07T15:16:00.060Z]	<Transcriber>	Kim_Duffy: That is possible with the with VCS to you know Express them in different languages but this is about building a tool to help facilitate that and um we're actually focusing a lot on this render method attribute so uh getting real world implementations of that and the focus on non-latin Script support which is strictly harder another is browser integration so building say VC display and verification tooling into the browser in the work here would be to build a browser plug-in plug-in and this also uses the vendor method attribute.
[2024-10-07T15:16:18.920Z]	<Transcriber>	Kim_Duffy: Lastly we have challenged 3 which is feature enhancement it needs to add features to the learner credential wallet which would enable richer displays of credentials in the in the learner credential wallet through the render method attribute.
[2024-10-07T15:16:20.654Z]	<Kaliya_Identity_Woman>	present+
[2024-10-07T15:16:26.380Z]	<Transcriber>	Kim_Duffy: And then extension to verify or plus which would allow use of the render method as well.
[2024-10-07T15:16:36.383Z]	<Transcriber>	Kim_Duffy: The last 1 I mentioned is a bonus design challenge which is to establish credibility in digital credentials.
[2024-10-07T15:17:05.099Z]	<Transcriber>	Kim_Duffy: And the context is that verifying digital credentials involves multiple checks so checking that their cryptographically sound they're not expired they're authentic but 1 aspect as we sort of move rely more on digital verification is how do we ensure human confidence in it and many efforts have attempted things like sort of breaking down what sort of checks are performed are being performed.
[2024-10-07T15:17:23.542Z]	<Transcriber>	Kim_Duffy: Questions like is there um you know sort of consistent expectations that we can start um pushing out and also what would it look like at scale and so this is this is pretty open for people for participants to.
[2024-10-07T15:17:24.466Z]	<Transcriber>	Kim_Duffy: Celebrate how they.
[2024-10-07T15:17:31.241Z]	<David_Ward>	present+
[2024-10-07T15:17:37.520Z]	<Transcriber>	Kim_Duffy: But we're framing this as a bonus design challenge meaning it can be stacked on top of the other challenges and the winner will get an additional prize.
[2024-10-07T15:17:51.035Z]	<Transcriber>	Kim_Duffy: Um we had a lot of prizes so it's a total of 15000 in prizes and let me see if I can make this a little bit bigger.
[2024-10-07T15:18:02.048Z]	<Transcriber>	Kim_Duffy: Well too big 1 second I just learned that I can do this okay.
[2024-10-07T15:18:40.247Z]	<Transcriber>	Kim_Duffy: So what I've listed here are the winners for each Challenge and the 2A to be 3A 3B are uh basically to go back so 2 multi this is 2A and multi language support to be browser integration 3A is this 1 3 B is this and now I'm realizing retrospect I could have labeled that better but um so these are for the winners and then the there are also prizes for second and third place and so you can see the hackathon site for more details.
[2024-10-07T15:19:40.838Z]	<Transcriber>	Kim_Duffy: The requirements are basically used the jmf stack and references for this so if any of you have participated in the jmf plugfest before then this will be especially easy to get started and we want to make clear that it's just getting started the uh hackathon goes all through the month of October and I think the submission deadline is actually November 4th that you can see that for sure on the site so you still have a long time to get started we are still having the information sessions and and speaking of we have an informational session on Wednesday October the 9th where um we'll be giving uh uh overview of this for the hackathon crowd I have some links here so basically participants so people can learn more if you know enough already.
[2024-10-07T15:19:41.413Z]	<Transcriber>	Kim_Duffy:  you want.
[2024-10-07T15:19:47.113Z]	<Transcriber>	Kim_Duffy: Register here we have additional challenge details on this site.
[2024-10-07T15:20:27.745Z]	<Transcriber>	Kim_Duffy: And um this is to uh attend the education Workforce Force track we have a Discord server for the hacker specifically for the hackathon purposes in the education track channel is the 1 where people will ask questions specifically about it but um so yeah I'm gonna stop here we're really grateful for the VC uh edu Community giving us a time to present this we are really excited about the idea of more sort of crossover events whether it's the hackathon or other opportunities to work together.
[2024-10-07T15:21:11.446Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	Much thanks to DIF for hosting this and to Kim for her championing of edu & workforce VCs!
[2024-10-07T15:21:17.739Z]	<Transcriber>	Kim_Duffy: 1 thing that people may not be familiar with about if is that our main priority is promoting decentralized identity standards wherever they are so we're not inserting anywhere in here you must use a different thing these are all actually either w3c or open ID standards um and so you know to us it's really important that people build the right with the right tools and standards for their community and so just want to make sure people know that that we're not uh trying to lock people into a different thing and that we're very um you know I personally am very passionate about the work that's happened in this community and um you know looking forward to doing more events like this in the future.
[2024-10-07T15:21:26.641Z]	<Transcriber>	Kim_Duffy: So I'll stop with this but I should turn over to any questions do we have anything teed up so far.
[2024-10-07T15:21:58.305Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	Kim - should we talk about how DevPost works since many may not be familiar with it?
[2024-10-07T15:22:14.125Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	(sorry for not turning on mic!)
[2024-10-07T15:22:31.437Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Zagidulin: So I have a question and um Carrie has a question in chat about should we talk about how devpost Works since uh people may not be familiar with it if you want to if you want to talk about that but I also have a different question.
[2024-10-07T15:22:33.891Z]	<TimG>	present+
[2024-10-07T15:22:34.592Z]	<Transcriber>	Kim_Duffy: Sorry I started answering it but then realized that I was on mute.
[2024-10-07T15:22:43.868Z]	<Transcriber>	Kim_Duffy: So um yeah and by the way I like the little King icon that's next to you Dmitri I guess that's a new sort of feature.
[2024-10-07T15:22:49.070Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Zagidulin: Oh yeah yes yeah that's the because I I logged in as the host so.
[2024-10-07T15:22:51.822Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Zagidulin: It's pretty funny though.
[2024-10-07T15:22:56.780Z]	<Ildiko_Mazar>	present+
[2024-10-07T15:23:49.005Z]	<Transcriber>	Kim_Duffy: I like to see all these jitsi future upgrades so yeah death post is is basically we're we're only using it for the submissions actually so Dev post is a platform that lets um participants submit their say code Etc entries and um and they actually deal with Distributing the prizes so that's really the main thing that we're doing there um to use Dev posts they require that you set up an account and every time that we do something like this I realize it's just very rich that we're not using our own tool sets right now like why aren't we using a dwn based thing that we're running ourselves but in any case current world we're in and we are using Dev posts they make you set up an account and essentially for this track well in general what they're looking for let me see I'm still sharing.
[2024-10-07T15:23:49.852Z]	<Transcriber>	Kim_Duffy:  1 second.
[2024-10-07T15:24:35.336Z]	<Transcriber>	Kim_Duffy: So all of the tracks have the requirement to provide a 3 minute video talking about what the app does in providing a URL to the public code repository and and I realize that doing the video for some may seem overwhelming I did I participated in my first hackathon about 2 years ago and I created the worst video ever that I'll actually share with you if you want just so you can see like how low the bar is but um yes it's to get a description from you of what you've built what you're doing and um also to provide a URL to the public code Repository.
[2024-10-07T15:24:46.372Z]	<Transcriber>	Kim_Duffy: In in this track specifically we're asking that you use the MIT license to be consistent with the other tooling that's built in this space.
[2024-10-07T15:25:37.483Z]	<Transcriber>	Kim_Duffy: Also a text description of the products features and functionality and then how requirements were used in the project so for example in this specific track we have the additional requirements that you have to use open badges 3.0 that you have to issue credentials with uh 1 of 2 profile options exchange credentials with 1 of 3 profile options um and so basically describe how your uh how your submission met those requirements and the nice thing about having built on jmf plugfest is that you can reuse all of the tools like the VC playground chappie BCC wallet and also the additional resources mentioned on here.
[2024-10-07T15:25:37.957Z]	<Transcriber>	Kim_Duffy:  but yeah.
[2024-10-07T15:25:51.414Z]	<Transcriber>	Kim_Duffy: Going to be um facilitating your submission asking for the description asking for the upload and the links and then they would also be um Distributing the prize money as well.
[2024-10-07T15:25:58.882Z]	<Transcriber>	Kim_Duffy: Any um other details about that we should get into.
[2024-10-07T15:26:09.361Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Zagidulin: And is there um is there requirements about new versus existing.
[2024-10-07T15:26:21.133Z]	<Transcriber>	Kim_Duffy: So yeah there is but you can use existing software the out actually let me pull up the rules that have the.
[2024-10-07T15:26:27.118Z]	<Transcriber>	Kim_Duffy: Uh 1 second.
[2024-10-07T15:26:36.756Z]	<Transcriber>	Kim_Duffy: Sorry I was afraid I was sharing my wrong screen um just 1 moment actually you know I'm going to go over to the.
[2024-10-07T15:26:40.772Z]	<Transcriber>	Kim_Duffy: Website to the dev post.
[2024-10-07T15:26:41.158Z]	<Transcriber>	Kim_Duffy:  so you can.
[2024-10-07T15:26:41.686Z]	<Transcriber>	Kim_Duffy: See what it.
[2024-10-07T15:26:44.803Z]	<Transcriber>	Kim_Duffy: This is the devpost site.
[2024-10-07T15:26:48.050Z]	<Transcriber>	Kim_Duffy: Um in in the rules.
[2024-10-07T15:27:00.296Z]	<Transcriber>	Kim_Duffy: There should be something around that and so it basically has some sort of requirement like it has to be updated within some amount of time and so I can find exactly.
[2024-10-07T15:27:04.746Z]	<Transcriber>	Kim_Duffy: What that is oh yeah so here we go new and existing.
[2024-10-07T15:27:10.243Z]	<Transcriber>	Kim_Duffy: Oh here we go.
[2024-10-07T15:27:12.376Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Zagidulin: Makes sense so we don't we don't see uh that table because I think you're just sharing the 1 table but but you're narrating oh there we go that's that's good.
[2024-10-07T15:27:25.789Z]	<Transcriber>	Kim_Duffy: Yeah so this is a dead post site sorry about that this is a dead post site and then it's talking about how you can you can use it you just have to update it and then in your submission explain how it was updated during the submission period.
[2024-10-07T15:27:36.406Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Zagidulin: And the spirit of the project is hey build something new right.
[2024-10-07T15:27:38.416Z]	<Transcriber>	Kim_Duffy: Yeah well the spirit is build something new or or.
[2024-10-07T15:28:25.582Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	+1 building something new -- help our ecosystem advance the work!
[2024-10-07T15:28:39.863Z]	<Transcriber>	Kim_Duffy: The the I would say the overall spirit is build something that is um you know really pushing forward demonstrating interoperability adoption of decentralized identity standards the human Centric uh thing I think that in my mind if it's significantly updated I really don't think I think judges don't care about that I personally will not make a distinction and I can um check in with others to make sure but I do think you know for example we've already seen submissions submissions that were introduced in the first day and so it's like okay that probably is not in the spirit of the future of Education or Workforce so um yeah feel free to update and then certainly some of the tracks are sort of you know like feature enhancements those are actually explicitly building on on existing uh.
[2024-10-07T15:29:03.078Z]	<Transcriber>	Kim_Duffy: So um that there are ones that are owned controlled by well DCC and open Wallet Foundation as opposed to 1 Zone but I think for example if someone were doing were using say the uh previously implemented solution in an extending it for say challenge 1 that could be really interesting.
[2024-10-07T15:29:12.695Z]	<Transcriber>	Kim_Duffy: Still sharing the right screen.
[2024-10-07T15:29:15.281Z]	<Alex_H>	present+
[2024-10-07T15:29:20.971Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Zagidulin: I think you're not sharing at the moment uh but I think.
[2024-10-07T15:29:22.212Z]	<Transcriber>	Kim_Duffy: Oh yeah sorry I just turned it off yeah.
[2024-10-07T15:29:28.453Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Zagidulin: Yeah yeah no worries no worries uh so I think Phil's on the Queue with a question.
[2024-10-07T15:29:30.993Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Zagidulin: Go ahead so.
[2024-10-07T15:30:25.768Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	present+
[2024-10-07T15:30:36.640Z]	<Andy_Griebel>	present+
[2024-10-07T15:30:37.248Z]	<Dmitri_Zagidulin>	present+
[2024-10-07T15:30:41.185Z]	<James_Chartrand>	present+
[2024-10-07T15:30:45.358Z]	<Stuart_Freeman>	present+
[2024-10-07T15:30:47.190Z]	<Hiroyuki_Sano,_Japan>	present+
[2024-10-07T15:30:47.905Z]	<Kim_Duffy>	my audio cut off
[2024-10-07T15:30:48.588Z]	<Geun-Hyung_Kim>	present+
[2024-10-07T15:30:49.550Z]	<Steven_Crawford>	present+
[2024-10-07T15:30:51.496Z]	<David_Ward>	present+
[2024-10-07T15:30:52.714Z]	<PL>	present+
[2024-10-07T15:30:53.258Z]	<Adam_(AuvoDigital)>	present+
[2024-10-07T15:31:05.152Z]	<Sheela_Kiiskila>	present+
[2024-10-07T15:31:12.453Z]	<Alex_H>	present+
[2024-10-07T15:31:26.145Z]	<TimG>	present+
[2024-10-07T15:31:39.585Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	present+
[2024-10-07T15:32:01.058Z]	<Ildiko_Mazar>	present+
[2024-10-07T15:34:04.878Z]	<PL>	Thanks Kim
[2024-10-07T15:34:07.279Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	When will the HR Open VC version standard be public?
[2024-10-07T15:34:08.576Z]	<Eric_Shepherd>	present+
[2024-10-07T15:34:32.927Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	Thanks Phil!
[2024-10-07T15:36:08.688Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	+1 Kim
[2024-10-07T15:36:31.742Z]	<PL>	LOL "the Lord's Work"
[2024-10-07T15:36:40.179Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	:angel:
[2024-10-07T15:37:20.090Z]	<Sharon_Leu_|_JFF_Labs>	present+
[2024-10-07T15:38:11.798Z]	<Sharon_Leu_|_JFF_Labs>	present+
[2024-10-07T15:38:28.100Z]	<Sharon_Leu_|_JFF_Labs>	present+
[2024-10-07T15:39:36.883Z]	<Kim_Duffy>	https://discord.gg/WXPzWvBCjD
[2024-10-07T15:41:57.765Z]	<Ildiko_Mazar>	<3 Thank you Kim, we're quite excited here on the other side of the Pond to follow the hackathon - I hope we might even have some European participants.
[2024-10-07T15:41:58.636Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	Please spread the word!
[2024-10-07T15:42:01.672Z]	<Sharon_Leu_|_JFF_Labs>	We're so excited for everyone to start building these important tools!
[2024-10-07T15:42:43.843Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	Thank you Kim!!
[2024-10-07T15:42:43.981Z]	<Sharon_Leu_|_JFF_Labs>	Thanks, Kim!
[2024-10-07T15:43:05.987Z]	<PL>	Thanks Kim for the sharing
[2024-10-07T15:43:10.193Z]	<Sheela_Kiiskila>	Thank you Kim and Kerri

