[Tue 11:01:03] <marybold>	scribe: marybold
[Tue 11:01:03] <marybold>	Meeting convened at top of hour by Manu Sporny.
[Tue 11:02:11] <marybold>	manu introduced the scribing process to the group. With this meeting, rotating scribes will follow the schedule in the announcement. Transcript errors can be corrected after the call.
[Tue 11:02:26] <marybold>	manu: We will wait until 5 after the hour and then get started.
[Tue 11:04:19] <marybold>	manu: Evgeny, are you going to be able to come to TPAC in the U.S.
[Tue 11:04:22] <marybold>	Evgeny: Unsure.
[Tue 11:04:53] <manu>	Agenda: http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-credentials/2014Sep/0016.html
[Tue 11:05:06] *	Evgeny (4d4b990d@gateway/web/freenode/ip.77.75.153.13) has joined #credentials
[Tue 11:05:20] *	dlongley marybold -- Manu was asking Evgeny if he was coming and that was Evgeny responding
[Tue 11:05:29] <marybold>	manu: Let's go ahead and get started. Our agenda is linked on screen. We need to discuss Mark Leuba's offer to liaison to higher ed standards groups.
[Tue 11:06:17] <marybold>	manu: agenda items-- are there any other requests for the agenda?
[Tue 11:06:17] <marybold>	taaz: None.
[Tue 11:11:37] <manu>	Topic: W3C TPAC Preparation
[Tue 11:11:44] <manu>	http://www.w3.org/2014/11/TPAC/
[Tue 11:11:54] <marybold>	manu: W3C TPAC preparation: the link to TPAC registration form is on screen.
[Tue 11:11:54] *	dlongley Tim Holborn was speaking (we all want this to be successful over next 3-4 years)
[Tue 11:12:35] <marybold>	manu: We are hoping to have the Web Payments group approved, with expectation of approval but not known until mid-October. We are seeing a lot of support.
[Tue 11:13:21] <marybold>	manu: On the Monday and Tuesday of W3C TPAC, will be meetings of the Web Payments group. Monday & Tuesday, 11-3, hours for "ad hoc" meetings. Presumably, that's when CCG can meet.
[Tue 11:13:47] <marybold>	manu: In the Web Payments group, there will be break-out discussions for government, education.
[Tue 11:14:13] <marybold>	manu: If you are attending TPAC, definitely plan for Monday and Tuesday. If you can attend Wednesday, that's for larger meeetings and the Gala.
[Tue 11:15:07] <marybold>	manu: Between now and end Oct, we need to think about what topics need to be addressed, e.g., we think identity is not an optional thing on the web, education and government identity are a part of this, topic is broader than just financial identity.
[Tue 11:15:50] <marybold>	manu: Register via the link. Non-members can attend but must be "cleared" by W3C to attend. Let me know if you want to go and I'll connect with the people to get you into the meetings.
[Tue 11:16:22] <marybold>	manu: Stephane Boyera and Karen Myers are the contacts that we can communicate with to have you vetted as an invited expert.
[Tue 11:16:36] <marybold>	manu:  Other q's on TPAC?
[Tue 11:16:42] <manu>	Topic: Mark as Liason to IMS Global and PESC
[Tue 11:16:51] <manu>	http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-credentials/2014Sep/0004.html
[Tue 11:18:13] <marybold>	manu: Mark Leuba has been on the call before but is not present today. He would like to be the liaison to IMS and PESC. Standards bodies for learning, education. IMS interest is identity. PESC, I don't have knowledge of. Mark has history with both organizations. We have talked with IMS and they are interested in the work.
[Tue 11:18:19] <marybold>	manu: Comments?
[Tue 11:19:04] <marybold>	Chris: I don't have a problem with Mark (lots of experience) but I am interested in talking with him. Can we have a special session to discuss how we are going to position this to the IMS?
[Tue 11:20:00] <marybold>	manu: You have Mark's email address. It would be good to pull in Bill Gebert from ETS and Mary or Eric from Accreditrust. There's no reason we cannot have more than one liaison, if you'd like a liaison from Badge Alliance of OBI.
[Tue 11:20:23] <marybold>	manu: Maybe we should set aside time in next call to discuss these matters.
[Tue 11:20:28] <marybold>	cmcavoy: Yes.
[Tue 11:20:37] <marybold>	manu: We'll carve out time on the next call.
[Tue 11:21:07] <marybold>	mediaprophet: Seeking higher ed subject matter experts
[Tue 11:21:36] *	dlongley marybold -- that is Tim Holborn speaking
[Tue 11:21:38] <marybold>	manu: We are heavy on the Western regions. Would help to have someone from Australia / Asia-Pacific, for example.
[Tue 11:21:52] <marybold>	Tim: sub-committee for education?
[Tue 11:22:27] <marybold>	manu: My concern is that we might duplicate work of Badge Alliance. Chris may have opinion. We'll trying to keep the work tightly on technical here.
[Tue 11:22:59] <marybold>	cmcavoy: I agree. I don't want to say that we should talk about that stuff only in Badge Alliance groups.
[Tue 11:23:33] <marybold>	cmcavoy: IMS is the 800lb. gorilla in the room in terms of education standards. They will be involved at some point.
[Tue 11:23:52] <marybold>	manu: Tim, you should definitely reach out to involve more people.
[Tue 11:24:48] <marybold>	mediaprophet: I need to reach out and identify someone for the education space. Work out some connections with universities. I am not ready to nominate someone at this point.
[Tue 11:25:06] <marybold>	mediaprophet: Badge Alliance, I am aware of.
[Tue 11:25:21] <marybold>	manu: If nothing else on this topic, we'll pick  it up next week.
[Tue 11:25:21] <manu>	Topic: Charter Vote Result
[Tue 11:25:34] <manu>	http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-credentials/2014Sep/0015.html
[Tue 11:26:17] <marybold>	manu: Result of charter vote: 2-week open vote, results are visible on the linked  page.  Great turn-out from this small group, with unanimous approval. Anyone can object to the charter at any point and call for a vote to update or change the charter at any time.
[Tue 11:27:09] <marybold>	manu: Anyone can call for changes; having a current charter does not mean it is set in stone. I believe Tim already has a set of changes or additions. Proposed on the mailing list and then we will schedule discussion and another vote.
[Tue 11:27:32] <marybold>	mediaprophet: Shared google-doc? Or some other collaborative doc?
[Tue 11:27:50] <marybold>	manu: The doc you have, it's difficult for me to pick out the changes; there does not appear to be track-changing.
[Tue 11:28:14] <marybold>	manu: Might be easier for people to indicate "please change this..." and then re-send to the group?
[Tue 11:28:37] <marybold>	manu: I don't know if it should be a collaborative doc?
[Tue 11:28:56] <marybold>	mediaprophet: Taking it offline; will come up with something that will work. Thank you.
[Tue 11:29:06] <marybold>	manu: Thanks, Tim. Any comments about the charter vote?  Other comments?
[Tue 11:29:15] <manu>	Topic: Web Payments Use Case Review
[Tue 11:29:26] <manu>	https://www.w3.org/community/webpayments/wiki/UseCases#Identity
[Tue 11:29:37] <marybold>	manu: Last week, we began use case reviews and got about half-way through. (Link on screen.)
[Tue 11:29:49] <marybold>	manu: The last use case was pair
[Tue 11:29:53] <manu>	Last time we ended at this - Use Case: A payer executes a transaction without revealing secrets that are not vital to the transaction (e.g. identity, passwords, PINs or other information that the merchant does not need to know).
[Tue 11:30:38] <marybold>	manu: This is just a pass to go over the use cases and design criteria. We will return to discuss in detail.
[Tue 11:30:53] <marybold>	manu: At high level, are they manageable and useful?
[Tue 11:31:09] <marybold>	mediaprophet: I have made comments, have you been able to see them?
[Tue 11:31:20] <marybold>	manu: Yes, if we get through these today, we'll pick them up.
[Tue 11:31:36] <marybold>	manu: These use cases came from the Web Payments CG and have already been through 2 reviews since May.
[Tue 11:31:49] <marybold>	manu: Took a long time but they are better because of the review.
[Tue 11:32:01] <manu>	Design Criteria: Consider using existing, widely deployed identity provider mechanisms (e.g. Facebook Connect, OpenID Connect, G+ Sign-In, etc.) to integrate with the digital credentials sharing and payments initiation process. Only invent a new mechanism if the current identity provider mechanisms do not provide the functionality necessary to achieve the use cases promoted by the group.
[Tue 11:32:09] <marybold>	manu: A use case is something you want to be able to do. Design criteria are we want to be consider...
[Tue 11:33:03] <marybold>	manu: Design Criteria - if we really care about customer privacy, using OpenID Connect is problematic because tracking is visible.
[Tue 11:33:16] <marybold>	manu: Questions or concerns about what this Design Criteria means?
[Tue 11:33:44] <marybold>	manu: Identity credential we have now covers reading and writing.
[Tue 11:34:01] <marybold>	manu: There's only so much privacy possible bc of the digital signature on it.
[Tue 11:34:32] <marybold>	manu: We havent' come up with a set of best pracitices.
[Tue 11:34:54] <marybold>	mediaprophet: Is there a mechanism for providing a badge?
[Tue 11:35:11] <marybold>	manu: Badge and credential are interoperable in vocabulary.
[Tue 11:35:24] <marybold>	dlongley: Badge is sub-set of a credential.
[Tue 11:35:33] *	dlongley marybold -- that was me (Dave Longley) speaking
[Tue 11:36:32] <marybold>	manu: Data rights of these cases. We should have some mechanism to create data rights.
[Tue 11:37:05] <marybold>	tim: Like Creative Commons, identify one data rights mechanism from another. If not part of the decision-making process of how a person decides to use their credentials.
[Tue 11:37:18] *	dlongley Tim Holborn was speaking
[Tue 11:37:21] <marybold>	manu: This design credential alludes to the possibility of another, which is a new way of logging in on the Web.
[Tue 11:38:13] <marybold>	manu: Log-in tokens: go to Web site and show govt-issued credential to get access rights to a Web site. That's an open question. The design criteria assumes that we could spawn a new log-in mechanism for the Web that would be privacy protecting.
[Tue 11:39:03] <marybold>	mediaprophet: We need to pay attention to data rights - the ability to describe when mechanism the person is using. Facebook Connect or OpenID -- is part of that specification  -- how that credential is going to be used? Do you get what I'm coming from?
[Tue 11:39:41] <marybold>	manu: There are 3 separable things here: 1) data rights, 2) how credentials are used with legacy systems, and 3) is there a way to use credentials for log-in? 3 separate questions.
[Tue 11:39:55] <marybold>	mediaprophet: Web ID isn't in that list, it probably should be.
[Tue 11:40:05] <manu>	Use Case: Transact with a merchant without revealing any identifying information. Identifying information is available to the payment processor.
[Tue 11:40:09] <marybold>	manu: Anything else about this particular design criteria before moving on?
[Tue 11:40:53] <marybold>	manu: Use case - interact with merchant - pseudo-anonymous transaction wrt. merchant, but known identity wrt. payment processor..
[Tue 11:41:06] <marybold>	mediaprophet: Does the transaction include receipt?
[Tue 11:41:39] <marybold>	manu: Yes, and that could lead to an accidental violation of privacy, for example if name in URL is visible.
[Tue 11:42:13] <marybold>	manu: Anonymous purchase - candy bar or magazine or under $10K purchase, benign, you should be able to communicate with the merchant in an anonymous way.
[Tue 11:42:41] <marybold>	mediaprophet: Separate use case for 5-cent?
[Tue 11:43:09] <marybold>	manu: Falls more into the Web Payments. Do you think there's a case of micro-payments that needs attention for credentials in this group?
[Tue 11:43:40] <marybold>	mediaprophet: Yes, how credentials might be commercialized. Transaction of 5-cents, such as a contribution to a Web site.
[Tue 11:43:57] <marybold>	mediaprophet: You would have to declare who you are. Are you able to give them that money?
[Tue 11:44:22] <marybold>	manu: You can be anonymous with merchant but the payment processor knows your identity.
[Tue 11:44:26] <marybold>	mediaprophet: When is it possible to do fully anonymous transactions?
[Tue 11:44:32] <marybold>	manu: Depends on the country.
[Tue 11:44:50] <marybold>	manu: Pseudo-anonymous transactions every day in convenience stores.
[Tue 11:45:44] <marybold>	padler: Question - kinds of transactions that require credentials sent  to the merchant? These are all aspects of the transaction. Some transactions require lots of identity information, others none.
[Tue 11:46:10] <marybold>	padler: Identity belongs to the consumer; some instances the identity belongs to the corporation asserting the validity of that identity.
[Tue 11:46:29] <marybold>	manu: Technologies we have right now allow that to happen.
[Tue 11:46:47] <marybold>	manu: In other cases, you shouldn't have to give any of it over to the merchant if you don't want to. The choice is with the consumer (or the entity that holds the identity credentials, which is often the entity that the credential is about).
[Tue 11:47:10] <marybold>	dlongley: The technology is built for minimum amount of information, then decide to give more.
[Tue 11:47:56] <marybold>	padler: Are there ways of maintaining my identity ... not rely on those credential providers?
[Tue 11:48:19] <marybold>	manu: all of the technologies we're creating here are completely consumer-focused. The entity with final say is the person whose identity is being expressed.
[Tue 11:48:29] <mediaprophet>	FYI: http://myprofile-project.org/thesis/manuscript_en.pdf
[Tue 11:49:02] <marybold>	manu: Govt-issued passport; you keep that in your personal store; you decide how to share with a merchant or third party.
[Tue 11:49:28] <marybold>	manu: Assure this is like your wallet. You decide where to store it and who to give it to.
[Tue 11:49:41] <mediaprophet>	http://www.w3.org/DesignIssues/
[Tue 11:50:16] <marybold>	mediaprophet: Links posted.
[Tue 11:51:01] <marybold>	manu: We're trying to create a lot of consumer choice. Today online, the corporation knows where you are logging into and then bundles that information and sells it.
[Tue 11:51:07] <marybold>	manu: Pat, does this make sense?
[Tue 11:52:04] <marybold>	padler: Yes, I was hoping that was what your answer was going to be. Even in the corporate world, transport across organizations is problematic, a dynamic that might be down the road for this. Pluggable, transportable identity.
[Tue 11:53:08] <marybold>	mediaprophet: Everyone has the right to identity. ... accessible by Web applications from a storage location... at the core of it. Depending on how you want to interact... different relationships with different entities. I hope that helps.
[Tue 11:53:15] <marybold>	padler: Yes, and the links are helpful.
[Tue 11:53:23] <manu>	Use Case: Enable truly anonymous transactions such that the identity of the payee is not discoverable by payees, merchants, or payment processors.
[Tue 11:53:46] <marybold>	manu: Next use case is one that we decided in Web Payments Group not to put into Version 1.
[Tue 11:54:02] <mediaprophet>	Right to identity + personaâ€¦  persona (psuedo anon) and ID (declared, etc.)
[Tue 11:54:29] <marybold>	manu: Basically, untraceable cash online. Rejected this use case bc not technically feasible. Runs afoul of regulatory.
[Tue 11:55:16] <marybold>	manu: True anonymity online -- for the credentials case, we support a certain amount of anonymity. Last week, discussed we need to be careful about "true anonymity" and "pseudo anon."
[Tue 11:55:48] <marybold>	manu: Cannot say we support true anonymity. Best we can say is we support pseudo-anonymity.
[Tue 11:56:19] <marybold>	dlongley: We just support varying degrees of pseudo-anon
[Tue 11:56:49] <marybold>	manu: We'll come back to it -- Dave Longley's statement of supporting varying levels.
[Tue 11:57:29] <manu>	Use Case: Jack (payer) wants to send Jill (payee) some money and asks Jill for a short, memorable payment identifier. Jill sends the payment identifier to Jack via an SMS message. Jack makes a payment using the short payment identifier; the payment processor translates the short payment identifier into a destination financial account for Jill.
[Tue 11:58:52] <manu>	For example, Jill could SMS text Jack the following message: Send $5 to ~JillJackson
[Tue 11:59:29] <marybold>	manu: Jack could put that into his payment client and "JillJackson" would be expanded to an identier.
[Tue 11:59:54] <marybold>	manu: Ripple Labs brought up this use case -- another use case, next in the list, concerns this.
[Tue 12:00:21] <marybold>	manu: Requires a new protocol for short identifiers. Should this be a Version 2 feature?
[Tue 12:00:43] <marybold>	manu: If we create this short payment identifier expansion mechanism...
[Tue 12:00:50] <marybold>	mediaprophet:About http?
[Tue 12:01:09] <marybold>	manu: No, about a new identifier on the Web for mapping to a new URI, potentially with a decentralized-hash-table back-end.
[Tue 12:02:00] <voip-cr>	Chris (SIP/172.16.6.236-0000002c) has left the conference.
[Tue 12:02:06] *	dlongley bye chris!
[Tue 12:02:08] *	cmcavoy has quit (Quit: cmcavoy)
[Tue 12:02:13] <marybold>	Evgeny: Version 1 can consider credential
[Tue 12:02:34] <marybold>	manu: Yes, Version 1 on basic identifiers. Version 2 can say, we can shorten those identifiers.
[Tue 12:02:43] <marybold>	manu: We're out of time
[Tue 12:03:14] <marybold>	evgeny: the SMS message, distinction is you're creating a short identifier from a long one. We need the long identifiers first, then we can choose how to shorten them later.
[Tue 12:03:30] <marybold>	manu: We need to discuss this more deeping to decide if we want to tackle this in the Version 1 work.
[Tue 12:03:42] <marybold>	manu: Needs to be generalized if any traction at W3C.
[Tue 12:04:03] <marybold>	manu: We are out of time. Same call, next week. Anything we should be aware of before the call next week?
[Tue 12:04:19] <marybold>	padler: Best way to send feedback on the use cases?
[Tue 12:04:29] <manu>	mailing list is best. There is a "respond to this message" link at the bottom of mailing list messages - http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-credentials/2014Sep/0018.html
[Tue 12:04:33] <manu>	http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-credentials/2014Sep/0019.html
[Tue 12:04:42] <mediaprophet>	join up here: http://www.w3.org/community/credentials/
[Tue 12:04:53] <marybold>	manu: These are Tim's use cases. Do you mean the wiki use cases?
[Tue 12:05:37] <marybold>	manu: Mailing list is the best place. "Mail options" link will open your email client. You have to be in the community group before you can respond.
[Tue 12:05:39] <voip-cr>	Tim (IAX2/diamondcard-3207) has left the conference.
[Tue 12:05:40] <voip-cr>	Dave Longley (SIP/6002-0000002b) has left the conference.
[Tue 12:05:40] <voip-cr>	Pat (IAX2/diamondcard-13546) has left the conference.
[Tue 12:05:41] <marybold>	manu: Thanks, everyone.
