[2021-08-10T15:57:37.236Z]	<Andrew_Hughes>	present+
[2021-08-10T15:57:37.238Z]	<mprorock>	present+
[2021-08-10T15:58:09.581Z]	<bobwyman>	present+
[2021-08-10T16:00:30.920Z]	<jtwalker2000>	present+
[2021-08-10T16:00:32.639Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	present+
[2021-08-10T16:00:47.088Z]	<Kaliya_IdentityWoman>	present+
[2021-08-10T16:00:49.123Z]	<George_Artem>	present+
[2021-08-10T16:00:59.680Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	present+
[2021-08-10T16:01:08.965Z]	<rgrant>	present+
[2021-08-10T16:01:12.766Z]	<achughes>	present+
[2021-08-10T16:01:19.656Z]	<Brian_Richter>	present+
[2021-08-10T16:01:22.581Z]	<Geun-Hyung>	present+
[2021-08-10T16:01:44.103Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	present+
[2021-08-10T16:01:45.114Z]	<Chris_Kelly_(DIF)>	present+
[2021-08-10T16:01:48.920Z]	<Adrian_Gropper>	present+
[2021-08-10T16:01:52.312Z]	<Geun-Hyung>	present+
[2021-08-10T16:02:07.098Z]	<Charles_E._Lehner>	present+
[2021-08-10T16:02:22.261Z]	<Brent>	present+
[2021-08-10T16:02:35.464Z]	<agropper_>	present+
[2021-08-10T16:02:35.771Z]	<Dave_Longley>	present+
[2021-08-10T16:02:41.333Z]	<Orie>	present+
[2021-08-10T16:02:42.448Z]	<George_Artem>	present+
[2021-08-10T16:02:57.244Z]	<mprorock>	What is WACI-PEx, project status, alignment with CCG projects - Brent Zundel, Orie Steele, Juan Caballero
[2021-08-10T16:03:24.277Z]	<DavidC>	present+
[2021-08-10T16:03:39.903Z]	<Markus_Sabadello>	present+
[2021-08-10T16:03:48.926Z]	<David_Chadwick>	present+
[2021-08-10T16:04:01.869Z]	<TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com)>	present+
[2021-08-10T16:04:04.368Z]	<Kim>	present+
[2021-08-10T16:04:40.801Z]	<bobwyman>	present+
[2021-08-10T16:04:42.294Z]	<mprorock>	Agenda: https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-credentials/2021Aug/0073.html
[2021-08-10T16:04:43.394Z]	<mprorock>	P Note: (1 minute)
Anyone can participate in these calls. However, all substantive contributors to any CCG Work Items must be members of the CCG with full IPR agreements signed. https://www.w3.org/community/credentials/join
    a. Ensure you have a W3 account: https://www.w3.org/accounts/request
    b. W3C COMMUNITY CONTRIBUTOR LICENSE AGREEMENT (CLA): https://www.w3.org/community/about/agreements/cla/
3. Call Notes (1 minute)
    a. These minutes and an audio recording of everything said on this call are archived at https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/
    b. We use IRC to queue speakers during the call as well as to take minutes. http://irc.w3.org/?channels=ccg or http://irc.w3.org:6665/#ccg or the Jitsi text chat.
    c. All attendees should type “present+” to get your name on the attendee list in the transcript.
    d. In IRC type “q+” to add yourself to the queue, with an optional reminder, e.g., “q+ to mention something”. The “to” is required.
    e. If you’re not on IRC, simply ask to be put on the queue.
    f. Please be brief so the rest of the queue get a chance to chime in. You can always q+ again.
    g. NOTE: This meeting is held by voice, not by IRC. Off-topic IRC comments are subject to deletion from the record. We work hard to manage a single thread of conversation so everyone can participate and be heard. Please respect the group process by joining the queue when you have something to contribute.
[2021-08-10T16:04:49.133Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	Agenda: https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-credentials/2021Aug/0073.html
[2021-08-10T16:04:59.417Z]	<Markus_Sabadello>	present+
[2021-08-10T16:05:01.090Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	:-)
[2021-08-10T16:05:29.275Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	Thanks Manu!
[2021-08-10T16:05:36.111Z]	<cel>	scribe: cel
[2021-08-10T16:05:39.524Z]	<econnell>	present+
[2021-08-10T16:06:10.743Z]	<cel>	mprorock: Taking just a quick minute for intros and reintros. Anyone new to the call or hasn't been on for a while, please q+ or jump right in to introduce yourself
[2021-08-10T16:06:18.017Z]	<Orie>	hey Andrew!
[2021-08-10T16:06:18.161Z]	<Chris_Kelly_(DIF)>	q+
[2021-08-10T16:06:24.408Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	Yay! Andrew! Great to see you here!!!
[2021-08-10T16:06:35.130Z]	<cel>	AndrewHughes: I've been away from CCG for a little while. Rejoining and looking forward to participoating more. I do international standards mostly at the ISO level, on digital identity and mobile identity
[2021-08-10T16:06:39.210Z]	<mprorock>	ack chris_kelly
[2021-08-10T16:06:43.204Z]	<Mahmoud>	present+
[2021-08-10T16:06:47.419Z]	<cel>	mprorock: Fantastic, looking forward to seeing m ore of you
[2021-08-10T16:06:52.057Z]	<mprorock>	q?
[2021-08-10T16:07:24.028Z]	<cel>	ChrisKelly: Hi, I've started in the Communications position at DIF, https://identity.foundation/ 
[2021-08-10T16:07:35.913Z]	<mprorock>	https://github.com/w3c/did-imp-guide
[2021-08-10T16:08:00.197Z]	<manu>	q+ DID Core testimonials and DID Imp Guide.
[2021-08-10T16:08:06.738Z]	<mprorock>	ack manu
[2021-08-10T16:08:09.874Z]	<henri>	present+
[2021-08-10T16:08:23.668Z]	<cel>	mprorock: Great, we like DIF
[2021-08-10T16:08:25.892Z]	<cel>	mprorock: DID Implementation Guide is moving along. Please review so it can move along path of standardization. Any other commments?
[2021-08-10T16:08:35.296Z]	<Anil_John>	present+
[2021-08-10T16:08:45.575Z]	<cel>	manu: ... Please vote in favor of making DID Core a global standard. There will be a press release.
[2021-08-10T16:09:08.208Z]	<cel>	... When W3C does a press release, it asks for testimonials. Anyone who is doing DIDs and VCs broadly.
[2021-08-10T16:09:26.001Z]	<cel>	... For examples, look through W3C press releases. If you're interested in doing a testimonial, please send to the mailing list.
[2021-08-10T16:09:33.021Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	q+
[2021-08-10T16:09:38.694Z]	<cel>	... (Not all are guaranteed to get in)
[2021-08-10T16:09:51.268Z]	<mprorock>	q?
[2021-08-10T16:09:56.694Z]	<cel>	... The highlight is on people/organizations deploying DIDs, VCs, etc.
[2021-08-10T16:10:20.387Z]	<cel>	... On the DID Implementation Guide: DID WG just talked about this: it's a bit shaky if we're getting enough movement on it to publish by the end of the DID WG Charter
[2021-08-10T16:10:28.317Z]	<cel>	... There is desire to publish it, but it needs editorial cleanup
[2021-08-10T16:10:43.069Z]	<cel>	... There are a number of statements without rationale. While folks agree to it, people reading it don't know
[2021-08-10T16:10:55.074Z]	<cel>	... Editorial work needed. Charles volunteered to help with some. You and Orie need to be aware...
[2021-08-10T16:11:01.002Z]	<Orie>	yes, PRs welcome.
[2021-08-10T16:11:10.882Z]	<Orie>	I cannot merge PRs in the repo saddly
[2021-08-10T16:11:14.303Z]	<Orie>	; )
[2021-08-10T16:11:19.561Z]	<cel>	mprorock: Absolutely, I made a PR... will be doing more ... Some PRs need to be merged for editorial cleanup. All PRs are welcome.
[2021-08-10T16:11:28.387Z]	<cel>	... (Neither Orie nor I can merge PRs on that repo)
[2021-08-10T16:11:36.285Z]	<cel>	... Anything else?
[2021-08-10T16:11:42.879Z]	<Orie>	https://github.com/w3c/did-imp-guide/pull/11#issuecomment-895401235
[2021-08-10T16:11:45.395Z]	<mprorock>	ack Heather
[2021-08-10T16:11:48.277Z]	<cel>	manu: You should ask Ivan for merge rights...
[2021-08-10T16:11:50.057Z]	<mprorock>	q?
[2021-08-10T16:12:12.447Z]	<cel>	Heather_Vescent: Thanks, Mike. Manu, that is exciting about a press release. I'll be a broken record... Hopefully you guys will reach out to a diverse group to quote.
[2021-08-10T16:12:34.816Z]	<cel>	... We have people with a lot of backgrounds. Having worked on Diversity and Inclusion... In order to include those voices, which may be more hesistant, you have to go out and ask them.
[2021-08-10T16:12:35.494Z]	<manu>	q+ to note yes, that's why I'm speaking up here...
[2021-08-10T16:12:57.475Z]	<cel>	... I hope that whoever is coordinating that will. I will be annoyed if I do not see a quote from a woman.
[2021-08-10T16:13:07.496Z]	<cel>	... If I can support, I will
[2021-08-10T16:13:19.132Z]	<mprorock>	ack manu
[2021-08-10T16:13:21.060Z]	<Chris_Kelly_(DIF)>	+1 diversity of viewpoints
[2021-08-10T16:13:23.167Z]	<cel>	.. By highlighting those voices, it helps to increase diversity and inclusion in the future.
[2021-08-10T16:13:25.728Z]	<mprorock>	q?
[2021-08-10T16:13:37.886Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	How can I actively help with this Manu?
[2021-08-10T16:13:52.085Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	Do you wan tto put me in touch with her or visa versa?
[2021-08-10T16:13:58.009Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	And THANK YOU for raising this Manu.
[2021-08-10T16:13:58.920Z]	<cel>	manu: Thank you for saying that, Heather. Yes, please help. I don't think that's a W3C strong point... It is on Coralie's list of things to look for. We need all the help we can get, to get those diverse voices in here.
[2021-08-10T16:14:26.240Z]	<cel>	... That's why I'm speaking about it here. If you want to reach out to them, please. If you know people who should be staying things about this stuff, reach directly out to them, tell them to send quotes to the mailing list.
[2021-08-10T16:14:42.154Z]	<cel>	topic: WACI-PEx
[2021-08-10T16:15:04.106Z]	<Orie>	Brent is a hero
[2021-08-10T16:15:10.521Z]	<cel>	brent: Hi. With permission I will share my screen. Orie, Juan and I discussed briefly, they will do most of the talking.
[2021-08-10T16:15:16.810Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	The hero that we need.
[2021-08-10T16:15:19.882Z]	<cel>	... For questions, please feel free to interrupt as we go.
[2021-08-10T16:15:38.114Z]	<cel>	... [Screen sharing: Wallet and Credential Interactions]
[2021-08-10T16:15:40.254Z]	<mprorock>	NOTE: for interruptions please q +
[2021-08-10T16:15:45.295Z]	<cel>	... I will begin with an intro, where did this come from.
[2021-08-10T16:15:58.994Z]	<cel>	... The genesis started with the Good Health Pass collaborative/initiative/blueprint...
[2021-08-10T16:16:37.556Z]	<cel>	... We were 50+ orgs, 200+ people... We got together in various groups to try to solve some problems surrounding vaccinations, sharing, in a travel context, to do so safely, with privacy.
[2021-08-10T16:16:49.580Z]	<cel>	... In the midst of that, had IIW. As you know, people show up to talk about things they care about.
[2021-08-10T16:17:19.484Z]	<cel>	... So we ended up having 4-5 sessions about the missing piece of how to request and present the information... There isn't a widely-agreed-upon method for a verifier to say here's what I want, and a holder to give it to them.
[2021-08-10T16:17:37.770Z]	<Dmitri_Z>	present+
[2021-08-10T16:17:50.447Z]	<cel>	... There were approaches... DIDComm has one, doesn't have to be over HTTP; flexible. VC Data Model a core component: definitely want to use Verifiable Presentations.
[2021-08-10T16:18:05.245Z]	<cel>	... Presentation Exchange (DIF) provides a model for submissions
[2021-08-10T16:18:17.284Z]	<cel>	... Aries, OIDC... various protocols.
[2021-08-10T16:18:39.256Z]	<cel>	... Through the discussion, it ended up being called a layer cake. (for a while it was called the Killer Whale Jello Salad, but that didn't convey...)
[2021-08-10T16:18:40.093Z]	<James_Chartrand>	present+
[2021-08-10T16:18:55.698Z]	<cel>	... Picture of components and where they fit [screen sharing Section 3]
[2021-08-10T16:19:00.836Z]	<David_Chadwick>	present+
[2021-08-10T16:19:17.117Z]	<cel>	... Protocol for communication between a prover and a verifier. Rely on DIDs and DID documents, to establish a DIDComm communication channel.
[2021-08-10T16:19:24.933Z]	<cel>	... Using elements from a Aries Present Proof protocol
[2021-08-10T16:19:32.889Z]	<cel>	... Here's a message to request a proof, present a proof, the presentation itself
[2021-08-10T16:19:46.788Z]	<cel>	... Within that, want to use Presentation Exchange, attach a message in submission and back to verifier
[2021-08-10T16:19:59.499Z]	<cel>	... This is version 0.1, of what we hope will be a much more general protocol.
[2021-08-10T16:20:26.902Z]	<cel>	... In this example we are specifically a BBS+ VC in a VP... Requiring a LD frame to be included...
[2021-08-10T16:20:42.342Z]	<manu>	q+
[2021-08-10T16:20:42.791Z]	<cel>	... Trying to take pieces that people are already using, and put together in a way that we can agree on. This is the stack.
[2021-08-10T16:20:55.176Z]	<identitywoman_>	https://identity.foundation/arewewaciyet/
[2021-08-10T16:20:59.136Z]	<mprorock>	ack manu
[2021-08-10T16:21:08.252Z]	<mprorock>	q?
[2021-08-10T16:21:16.260Z]	<identitywoman_>	that link you can use to see the killerwhale jello salad yoruself.
[2021-08-10T16:21:26.071Z]	<cel>	manu: Super helpful. i have looked at the spec, not in detail yet. Question: I'm wondering if DIDComm at the bottom is an absolute requirement. We have other mechanisms. CHAPI exists. It looks like we're heading towards VC HTTP API moving presentations back and forth.
[2021-08-10T16:21:33.040Z]	<mprorock>	q+ to ask about HL
[2021-08-10T16:21:46.722Z]	<Andrew_Hughes>	q+ query languages question
[2021-08-10T16:21:51.601Z]	<Orie>	q+ to explain that PE is protocol agnostic
[2021-08-10T16:21:59.229Z]	<cel>	... I think one of the goals we want is to maybe more multiple different protocols over these channels. For example, CHAPI is protocol-agnostic. In theory you can move DIDComm over CHAPI. Even VC HTTP API will probably end up there.
[2021-08-10T16:22:00.383Z]	<Andrew_Hughes>	q-
[2021-08-10T16:22:10.031Z]	<cel>	... Two approaches: assume bottom layer is there, or don't.
[2021-08-10T16:22:10.260Z]	<Adrian_Gropper>	q+
[2021-08-10T16:22:13.852Z]	<mprorock>	q-
[2021-08-10T16:22:20.403Z]	<David_Chadwick>	present+
[2021-08-10T16:22:32.032Z]	<cel>	... Do we want a bunch of tiny protocols to put over the pipe, or want to say, no, we will fix the bottom layer? What was the discussion like?
[2021-08-10T16:24:04.858Z]	<mprorock>	ack orie
[2021-08-10T16:24:05.422Z]	<cel>	brent AFAICR, yes, we want to be as general as possible in the future. Want to use over CHAPI or VC HTTP API. Want people to able to use OIDC, use what they have and create something great for everybody, in the long-term. For 0.1, because we wanted to have something as fully-specified as possible for the Good Health Pass blueprint, we constrained ourselves to the signature types required by the
[2021-08-10T16:24:05.717Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	Great, thank you Brent, that was helpful.
[2021-08-10T16:24:07.892Z]	<cel>	blueprint. For this one, I don't think we had a choice but to constrain ourselves to DIDComm over HTTP - which we hope will fold easily into VC HTTP API, to plug it in, that is the goal, broadening this has been a design goal from the beginning. We'll see how well we did as we move into 1.0
[2021-08-10T16:24:15.346Z]	<mprorock>	q+ kim
[2021-08-10T16:24:44.429Z]	<cel>	Orie: to restate, Presentation Exchange is protocol and assertion format agnostic. PE can move things that are not VCs/VPS - it just moves JSON around. DIDComm is also transport-agnostic - it can be moved over HTTP or NFC.
[2021-08-10T16:24:54.245Z]	<David_Chadwick>	present+
[2021-08-10T16:25:08.044Z]	<identitywoman_>	present+
[2021-08-10T16:25:12.980Z]	<cel>	... Speaking to VC HTTP API and CHAPI, I have implemented support for this flow in both of them previous. In VC HTTP API, the protocol is handled by HTTP endpoints - the infamous cross-trust-domain endpoints.
[2021-08-10T16:25:25.050Z]	<cel>	... And then for CHAPI, Request/QueryByFrame is the mechanism, the same format.
[2021-08-10T16:25:41.097Z]	<cel>	... Technically, CHAPI and VC HTTP API already support requests for presentations in the same format.
[2021-08-10T16:25:56.438Z]	<cel>	... DIDComm is transport agnostic - believe it will support non-HTTP
[2021-08-10T16:26:07.035Z]	<mprorock>	ack adrian
[2021-08-10T16:26:10.733Z]	<cel>	... So implement once and then can do over other transports, rather than different protocols
[2021-08-10T16:26:12.064Z]	<mprorock>	q?
[2021-08-10T16:26:50.915Z]	<cel>	Adrian: Nobody will be particularly surprised that when I look for a diagram that has a request phase to, presumably, a data subject, that I think in terms of an authorization protocol rather than a communication protocol.
[2021-08-10T16:27:27.773Z]	<cel>	... My question to the group, relative to the recent question or two: Are we really convinced that we want to have two orthoganal dimensions to how requests are processed (not sure if orthogonal is right term) - one for messaging, and one for authorization.
[2021-08-10T16:27:37.972Z]	<Orie>	authorization is always implemented in messaging protoccols
[2021-08-10T16:27:39.700Z]	<cel>	... How, across the various protocols in these groups. How are we going to answer that question?
[2021-08-10T16:27:47.889Z]	<cel>	mprock: brent, or Orie, any thoughts?
[2021-08-10T16:27:59.865Z]	<cel>	brent: Authorization is always implemented in messaging protocols. I believe DIDComm handles that. Orie?
[2021-08-10T16:28:07.213Z]	<Andrew_Hughes>	q+ to ask about query language frameworks
[2021-08-10T16:28:29.626Z]	<cel>	Orie: The important part of authorization is consent from the holder is a pain. Typically holder must allow or not. If they allow, a response is sent that contains their selective disclosure.
[2021-08-10T16:28:59.689Z]	<cel>	... In DIDComm, that is messages encrypted with JWE. In other protocols (VC HTTP API), it's plaintext objects over TLS. With CHAPI, plaintext messages through browser windows
[2021-08-10T16:29:10.756Z]	<mprorock>	ack kim
[2021-08-10T16:29:16.575Z]	<cel>	... OIDC....  messages over an encrypted channel.
[2021-08-10T16:29:48.282Z]	<Orie>	yes, PE spec and DIDComm v2 are "pre-standards"
[2021-08-10T16:29:51.883Z]	<cel>	Kim: To reframe, I have the same question. There are lot of "new"/pre-standards in that layer cake. I get the idea is to pick things that people in the room implementing it can agree on.
[2021-08-10T16:29:53.588Z]	<manu>	q+ to note that we're kinda almost doing the right thing (pluggable components), but also probably failing in some way (complexity)... focus on whatever we do being wrong, what's the escape hatch?
[2021-08-10T16:30:20.247Z]	<Andrew_Hughes>	q-
[2021-08-10T16:30:20.742Z]	<cel>	... But suppose someone says I don't want to introduce DIDComm, and I want to use JWTs. That's a pretty simply thing, that maybe I want to use Presentation Exchange or some protocol over HTTPI. The original protocol was like that.
[2021-08-10T16:30:38.139Z]	<cel>	... How do we think it is a good way for people who want different layer cakes to propose their own?
[2021-08-10T16:30:39.452Z]	<Andrew_Hughes>	q+ (waiting for a break in the action to ask about query languages)
[2021-08-10T16:30:52.641Z]	<cel>	... Could these be called different WACIs? My current approach is I forked the older one...
[2021-08-10T16:31:14.723Z]	<cel>	... I'm curious, if the editors have thought about how other layer cakes can do their own way. Not to be competitive, but to document choices in a standard way.
[2021-08-10T16:31:48.237Z]	<cel>	brent: We've thought a lot about what we want to include, and that generality, but to recommend a particular architectural approach, those are conversations we look forward to having... to figure out how to do that.
[2021-08-10T16:31:48.897Z]	<mprorock>	ack manu
[2021-08-10T16:31:54.426Z]	<mprorock>	q?
[2021-08-10T16:32:14.052Z]	<Orie>	I think forking the original spec, is a good approach.. you are just replacing DIDComm v2 with original WACI... both are "pre standards"
[2021-08-10T16:32:37.551Z]	<Orie>	both use JOSE
[2021-08-10T16:32:44.292Z]	<cel>	manu: I would like us to start diving into the details, I think that may be informative. To play off what Kim mentioned, looking at the layer diagram, I think it's good that this group is starting to get layering. ... Layering stacks together that were created by different people, a very positive thing.
[2021-08-10T16:33:02.401Z]	<cel>	... The downside is complexity. So many ways to put the blocks together, we end up with a noninteroperable scenario in the end.
[2021-08-10T16:33:14.255Z]	<cel>	... We should be creating components, and trying to converge in the end of it.
[2021-08-10T16:33:23.207Z]	<Andrew_Hughes>	/me lol
[2021-08-10T16:33:40.737Z]	<cel>	... The other idea is that everything we are doing now may be wrong. It's a high likelyhood that any subset of these components is a wrong one in the future.
[2021-08-10T16:33:53.557Z]	<cel>	... Hopefully folks are thinking about this as they put these things together.
[2021-08-10T16:33:54.618Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	q+
[2021-08-10T16:34:03.408Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	q-
[2021-08-10T16:34:28.050Z]	<mprorock>	ack andrew
[2021-08-10T16:34:34.565Z]	<cel>	brent: We are thinking about. I encourage anyone who can to join the conversation. We're sharing this v0.1 here, we think it has the components we need now, and making it more modular and general moving forward will work. Want to keep having conversations.
[2021-08-10T16:34:37.957Z]	<mprorock>	q?
[2021-08-10T16:34:44.051Z]	<Orie>	q+
[2021-08-10T16:34:47.796Z]	<Orie>	<3 OPA :)
[2021-08-10T16:34:57.152Z]	<cel>	Andrew: Has any discussion happened about using standardized frameworks for querying languages, such as OPA, or REGO?
[2021-08-10T16:35:10.363Z]	<Orie>	See also https://www.openpolicyagent.org/docs/latest/policy-language/
[2021-08-10T16:35:13.186Z]	<mprorock>	ack orie
[2021-08-10T16:35:14.712Z]	<cel>	brent: Only thing I think of here is presentation exchange relies on JSON Schema to filter and describe things.
[2021-08-10T16:35:21.726Z]	<mprorock>	q?
[2021-08-10T16:35:52.780Z]	<cel>	Orie: Excellent question. In the current WACI-PEx, there are two language constraints that are relevant. First is JSON Schema. PEx relies on JSON Schema. WACI-PEx relies on PEx (Presentation Exchange)
[2021-08-10T16:35:58.446Z]	<cel>	... The other is LD Framing
[2021-08-10T16:36:27.364Z]	<cel>	... There has been a lot of discussion about whether JSON-LD Framing is necessary. Folks have been writing code to eliminate it so can deterministically build it from the input descriptors (attributes).
[2021-08-10T16:36:50.437Z]	<cel>	... That's an exciting reduction in complexity, but also an increase in complexity... to present credentials with selective disclosure.
[2021-08-10T16:37:00.981Z]	<cel>	... Additional languages have not been discussed significantly.
[2021-08-10T16:37:14.850Z]	<cel>	Andrew: My near-term interest is in Policy languages. I'll follow up later.
[2021-08-10T16:37:27.689Z]	<Orie>	Andrew: https://github.com/decentralized-identity/crypto-wg/pull/13
[2021-08-10T16:37:41.210Z]	<cel>	brent: Walking through the spec, this part talks about each component...
[2021-08-10T16:37:47.674Z]	<cel>	... [Section 3.5 and 4]
[2021-08-10T16:38:15.508Z]	<cel>	... Then the context for each component... In order to use the, in what way... For example, presentation definition supports a property... must be a LDP, one of these proof types.
[2021-08-10T16:38:39.950Z]	<cel>	... So when a verifier says what they want, they say ... the proof types they want.
[2021-08-10T16:38:52.542Z]	<cel>	... The context constrains some of the layers, so that we have better interop in v0.1
[2021-08-10T16:39:33.857Z]	<cel>	... Similarly, we say we need a frame. JSON Schema for Presentation Exchange doesn't allow arbitrary properties. So in addition to requiring a frame object, we say, since the presentation definition is a different spec handled by a different group, we say here is the JSON Schema you can use to validate the presentation definition.
[2021-08-10T16:39:43.412Z]	<Orie>	See also https://github.com/w3c-ccg/vc-http-api/blob/main/holder.yml#L120
[2021-08-10T16:39:43.900Z]	<George_Artem>	dropping thank you
[2021-08-10T16:39:47.664Z]	<cel>	... Identical to for a regular presentation definition, but with a frame object.
[2021-08-10T16:40:39.300Z]	<cel>	... This reflects our general tactic of relying on other specs but pulling information into this spec so we don't have to rely on them... We've started the process of adding a frame property - first step to constructing one deterministically from the input descriptors - that conversation is starting, but we didn't want to wait for it in order to let it be usable.
[2021-08-10T16:40:56.672Z]	<cel>	... Similar for DIDComm... Must need a service property. Supporting routing keys.
[2021-08-10T16:41:15.130Z]	<cel>	... Much of this language taken wholesale from the DIDComm v2 spec, which is under development; we didn't want to wait for that spec to finish.
[2021-08-10T16:41:38.011Z]	<cel>	... It's possible that in time we will be able to say, just use DIDComm, and minimize that section. But for now... pulling that in.
[2021-08-10T16:41:56.796Z]	<cel>	... One thing where feedback is appreciated is in examples; we try to make them as real-world as possible
[2021-08-10T16:42:21.295Z]	<cel>	... Let us know if the examples don't make sense
[2021-08-10T16:42:31.571Z]	<cel>	... [Section 6]
[2021-08-10T16:42:51.474Z]	<cel>	... [Section 7] Interoperability profile gives steps... Generate QR code, encoding, example.
[2021-08-10T16:43:00.530Z]	<Adrian_Gropper>	q+
[2021-08-10T16:43:11.321Z]	<cel>	... When it's processed, here's what could happen. Step by step: here's a QR code, request presentation message...
[2021-08-10T16:43:15.073Z]	<mprorock>	q+ to ask about interop testing approaches, etc
[2021-08-10T16:43:15.459Z]	<cel>	... Finally the proof that is presented
[2021-08-10T16:43:25.608Z]	<cel>	... Most of the space is taken up by the proofs.
[2021-08-10T16:43:31.709Z]	<cel>	... Then the optional ACK, I got it
[2021-08-10T16:43:38.002Z]	<Orie>	payloads in these examples can already be produced by the vc-http-api
[2021-08-10T16:43:43.117Z]	<Orie>	today
[2021-08-10T16:43:57.959Z]	<cel>	... One thing we loved about WACI is how simple and straightforward it was. We hope and feel that the elements we incorporated were a way to bring as many people into the room as possible who were already working on these things.
[2021-08-10T16:44:34.975Z]	<cel>	... Specifically out of scope is deterministic rendering of the JSON-LD frame, different transports. For 0.1, trying to be constrained. Only two months overdue, which in standards world is kindof miraculous.
[2021-08-10T16:44:38.680Z]	<cel>	... Started in May
[2021-08-10T16:44:47.310Z]	<identitywoman_>	to be fair - the blueprint was also delayed and comes out on Thursday :)
[2021-08-10T16:44:56.859Z]	<Orie>	having regular calls that only discuss issues, really helps
[2021-08-10T16:44:58.282Z]	<manu>	q+ to support implement first as a great way to develop this stuff, note concerns around complexity, and (perhaps agree to top-level presentation request/response format)?
[2021-08-10T16:44:59.588Z]	<David_Lehn>	present+
[2021-08-10T16:44:59.769Z]	<cel>	... We think someone could take it and implement against it. If folks want to try, please try, and raise issues.
[2021-08-10T16:45:10.344Z]	<identitywoman_>	We are going to talk about this at DIF Interop tomorrow and consider the path to testing amongst implementations soon.
[2021-08-10T16:45:19.487Z]	<cel>	... We welcome feedback, issues, folks jumping in. DIF is easy to join, for individuals especially.
[2021-08-10T16:45:34.490Z]	<cel>	mprorock: Thanks. Impressed with the pace of progress.
[2021-08-10T16:45:35.562Z]	<mprorock>	ack adrian
[2021-08-10T16:45:39.910Z]	<mprorock>	q?
[2021-08-10T16:45:58.351Z]	<brent>	repository where issues can be raised: https://github.com/decentralized-identity/waci-presentation-exchange/issues
[2021-08-10T16:46:02.067Z]	<cel>	Adrian: Thank you. This is a very long document, and I'm trying to wrap my head around it. I wonder if there is an appendix or summary of the absolute requirements that this is meant to fulfill.
[2021-08-10T16:46:40.357Z]	<cel>	My exhaustive list for high-level requirements that we are trying to work into it: Selective discloure, combining VCs into a presentation (via linked secrets or other mechanism), allowing for ZKPs, and whether can be done without DIDs.
[2021-08-10T16:46:44.490Z]	<Orie>	Adrian you forgot works with HTTP, and supports message level encryption
[2021-08-10T16:46:56.925Z]	<Orie>	but the rest is correct, for the most parrtt
[2021-08-10T16:46:58.059Z]	<cel>	... Are these the right must-haves? Are they listed anywhere, in introduction or charter? Before getting into protocols.
[2021-08-10T16:47:34.438Z]	<cel>	brent: We tried to reflect those requirements in the abstract and introduction. As far as having a brief list, honestly each of the things we point to is larger than the spec. e.g. Good Health Pass blueprint
[2021-08-10T16:47:53.065Z]	<Orie>	q?
[2021-08-10T16:47:55.934Z]	<Orie>	q+
[2021-08-10T16:47:56.839Z]	<cel>	... We point to notes from conversations from IIW, also longer than the specification ended up being. The summary is in the spec already, rather than something we are pointing to.
[2021-08-10T16:48:07.321Z]	<Orie>	PRs welcome Adrian :)
[2021-08-10T16:48:30.658Z]	<cel>	Adrian: What I'm looking at on the screen doesn't list them. Not talking about pointing to other things - the four things we must have. Are those four things the right four things, and are they listed as such in the document?
[2021-08-10T16:49:05.284Z]	<cel>	brent: If I recall the four things... didn't sound like anything off to me. If you would be willing to raise an issue, about putting them in the doc, I think someone might make a PR to put them in
[2021-08-10T16:49:16.600Z]	<cel>	Adrian: I will
[2021-08-10T16:49:28.360Z]	<mprorock>	ack orie
[2021-08-10T16:49:31.902Z]	<mprorock>	q?
[2021-08-10T16:49:42.345Z]	<cel>	Orie: There are two stages to the fundamental interactions between issuers, holders and verifiers. First stage: issuer to holder exchange - how the holder gets their credentials.
[2021-08-10T16:50:04.379Z]	<cel>	... This flow originally was proposed for the holder to verifier part. Assuming you have credentials, how to present them to a verifier.
[2021-08-10T16:50:21.163Z]	<cel>	... In particular, with the changes.... for selective disclosure
[2021-08-10T16:50:32.626Z]	<cel>	... This spec is primarily for holder to verifier.
[2021-08-10T16:50:58.993Z]	<cel>	... Other thing missing from your list: that the protocol works, and it uses HTTP - which we wanted so it can be testable.
[2021-08-10T16:51:00.143Z]	<mprorock>	ack mprorock
[2021-08-10T16:51:13.513Z]	<Orie>	q+ to cover interop ttesting
[2021-08-10T16:51:19.489Z]	<cel>	mprorock: I wanted to ask around what are the plans for interop testing? Test suites? Implementations, Open source or otherwise?
[2021-08-10T16:51:25.170Z]	<mprorock>	ack orie
[2021-08-10T16:52:03.200Z]	<cel>	Orie: Right now, with the examples we have, we're about at the same places as the VC HTTP API for these endpoints. Have endpoints for conducting exchanges, have examples.
[2021-08-10T16:52:15.673Z]	<cel>	... VC HTTP API doesn't have test cases for the exchange, even though the data exists.
[2021-08-10T16:52:23.510Z]	<cel>	... This spec doesn't have examples(?) either
[2021-08-10T16:52:37.423Z]	<cel>	... Next step is to create tests... that both of these specs support.
[2021-08-10T16:52:53.199Z]	<cel>	... From the implementation, can generate interoperable test vectors. That's the next step.
[2021-08-10T16:53:04.141Z]	<cel>	... Folks are working on implementing this protocol.
[2021-08-10T16:53:25.308Z]	<cel>	... Integration point with VC HTTP API: I'd love to see support for these kind of exchanges supported in the VC HTTP API.
[2021-08-10T16:53:44.735Z]	<cel>	... Main difference is that this spec relies on message-level encryption and is transport-agnostic, while VC HTTP API relies on transport-level encryption, and is HTTP-only.
[2021-08-10T16:54:06.544Z]	<cel>	... We'd love to see an implementation that supports interoperable presentation exchange with this specification, on top of the VC HTTP API.
[2021-08-10T16:54:16.743Z]	<mprorock>	ack manu
[2021-08-10T16:54:25.632Z]	<mprorock>	q?
[2021-08-10T16:54:25.668Z]	<cel>	... My hope is the next time I spend a weekend to expand the VC HTTP API, can extend it to support this specification.
[2021-08-10T16:54:31.462Z]	<Orie>	this is not imp firstt
[2021-08-10T16:54:35.956Z]	<Orie>	there are no imps yet.
[2021-08-10T16:54:51.876Z]	<cel>	manu: Hand-wringing a bit... +1 to putting it together, kudos to the editor. Some fairly deep concerns around complexity in the specification.
[2021-08-10T16:55:06.662Z]	<cel>	... LD Framing is a complexity, we shoul try hard to eliminate. Ideally that complexity doesn't hit the entire ecosystem.
[2021-08-10T16:55:27.832Z]	<cel>	... Same thing with JSON Schema. There are ways... don't want to impose as the first thing people step into.
[2021-08-10T16:55:39.064Z]	<cel>	... Concerns about complexity, enabling the ecosystem.
[2021-08-10T16:55:39.718Z]	<manu>	https://w3c-ccg.github.io/vp-request-spec/#format
[2021-08-10T16:55:39.992Z]	<Orie>	https://github.com/decentralized-identity/presentation-exchange is the place to attack the complexity (JSON Schema and JSON-LD frame)
[2021-08-10T16:56:11.806Z]	<cel>	... We do have a VP Request spec, that has existed for multiple years, not documented as well as this, but exists and we have done interop with it.
[2021-08-10T16:56:21.793Z]	<Orie>	https://w3c-ccg.github.io/vp-request-spec/#peer-to-peer
[2021-08-10T16:56:36.311Z]	<Orie>	^ currently does not document query by frame at all
[2021-08-10T16:56:39.117Z]	<cel>	... Need to make sure that the request mechanism has the flexibility to completely eliminate LD Framing and JSON Schema. It should be an option, but should be able to use simpler query languages.
[2021-08-10T16:56:42.496Z]	<bblfish>	what is LD-framing?
[2021-08-10T16:56:49.686Z]	<cel>	https://www.w3.org/TR/json-ld11-framing/
[2021-08-10T16:57:22.856Z]	<bblfish>	+1
[2021-08-10T16:57:43.825Z]	<cel>	manu: Inevitable, I think we're on a collission course. VC HTTP API ... is where I think the big conflict will happen. But we need to enable ways of doing things. Typically wrong in first go-around.
[2021-08-10T16:58:01.663Z]	<Orie>	what if folks want to swap out HTTP ?
[2021-08-10T16:58:05.144Z]	<cel>	... Please focus on things to allow people to swap out components, so if people want to run DIDComm over VC HTTP API, can do that, but not default.
[2021-08-10T16:58:10.566Z]	<cel>	... +1 to the work
[2021-08-10T16:58:28.652Z]	<manu>	+1 to integration course...
[2021-08-10T16:58:29.622Z]	<cel>	brent: In response, only thing I would change is that rather than being on a collision course, my naively hopeful view is that we are on an integration course.
[2021-08-10T16:58:30.713Z]	<Orie>	we are on an integration course
[2021-08-10T16:58:32.681Z]	<mprorock>	+1 integration course
[2021-08-10T16:58:45.314Z]	<cel>	... We didn't built this to complete, but because we need it now; and we hope it will integrate with the other efforts.
[2021-08-10T16:58:46.055Z]	<Orie>	we have overlapping members that are managing this.
[2021-08-10T16:58:59.312Z]	<cel>	manu: +1, I believe we are operating in good faith
[2021-08-10T16:59:11.604Z]	<Adrian_Gropper>	jello combo
[2021-08-10T16:59:26.702Z]	<cel>	mprorock: Good analogy, hopefully we wind up with a magically combined boat rather than a bunch of titantic shards.
[2021-08-10T16:59:44.241Z]	<cel>	... Thanks all. Happy Tuesday
[2021-08-10T17:00:01.073Z]	<TallTed>	present+
