Thanks to Peter Mackinnon for scribing this week! The minutes
for this week's Credentials CG telecon are now available:

https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/2021-03-31 

Full text of the discussion follows for W3C archival purposes.
Audio from the meeting is available as well (link provided below).

----------------------------------------------------------------
Credentials CG Telecon Minutes for 2021-03-31

Agenda:
  https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-credentials/2021Mar/0281.html
Organizer:
  Wayne Chang and Kim Hamilton Duffy and Heather Vescent
Scribe:
  Peter Mackinnon
Present:
  Robbie Jones, Manu Sporny, Sarven Capadisli Heather Vescent,
  Peter Mackinnon, Charles E. Lehner, Ted Thibodeau,
  Juan Caballero, Wayne Change, Phil L., Dmitri Zagidulin,
  Matthieu Collé, Jeff Orgel, Taylor Kendall, Kayode Ezike, Amy
  Guy, Erica Connell
Audio:
  https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/2021-03-31/audio.ogg

Wayne Chang: We've been having a lot of good engagements with Solid, identifying concrete next steps. [scribe assist by Manu Sporny]
<pete_m> i can scribe
Peter Mackinnon is scribing.
Peter Mackinnon is scribing.
Wayne_Chang: Topic: Introductions & Reintroductions
Peter Mackinnon: Hi, Pete -- I'm new here -- a student, here to learn about this exciting new ecosystem. [scribe assist by Manu Sporny]
Peter Mackinnon: Excited to learn, im a student, lets have fun
Wayne_Chang: any reintroductions?
Wayne_Chang: Topic: Announcements & Reminders
https://github.com/w3c-ccg/community/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3A%22action%3A+review+next%22
... moving to progress on action items
Heather Vescent: Next week we are moving back to the old time Tues 9AM pacific
Manu Sporny: Announcement about DID core change if we have time
Wayne_Chang: action item review, is gimly_jack here? Anyone else can speak up
Juan Caballero: Minutes are on github, link will be posted. This is a multi signature item
Wayne_Chang: next items, CHAPI Interop
... it meets criteria
... SOLID's parallels with CCG, and next steps for both ecosystems
Wayne_Chang: Topic: Solid Discussion and next steps
Manu Sporny: Spoke with sarven, spoke about potential overlaps
Sarven Capadisli: Intro -- working on SOLID for 5+ years
... committee group chair, busy working no tech specs and tech reports for SOLID
Manu Sporny: Sarven's been around the the CG's for a while, great to have you here
... ill go down the list, summarizing overlap
... starting at the most basic layer moving upwards
... solid is working on things that we're not but need, lots of mutual benefit
... SOLID supports JSON-LD, which the CCG depends on quite a bit
... JSON-LD is a global standard (v1.1), we are all using it
... SOLID uses other stuff than JSON-LD
Manu Sporny: SOLID can consume the VC's work from CCG
... VC discussion, how to move things I/O of solid pods, or digital wallets
... CCG has some very specific protocols on how to do this, SOLID has general protocols for it
<tallted> Digital Wallet has a fair number of requirements that I would not nnecessarily expect to be part of a Solid Pod.
... both groups have a general awareness for this
<tallted> Solid Pods are much more of a general storage space
... thoughts Sarven?
Sarven Capadisli: I dont see major conflicts
... parts of the group depends on implementation
... some CHAPI specs are not representing what is, or where it's implemented
... we need to see if things will be optional, best-practices, etc
... SOLID is working to see what's missing, and what might work to remedy
Wayne_Chang: question about SOLID pod, where can we find info?
<tallted> A Digital Wallet *app* might target a Solid Pod as its storage space.
Sarven Capadisli: Its the main protocol spec
... most part compatible with LDP
... HTTP server with some linking
Manu Sporny: https://solid.github.io/specification/
Wayne_Chang: manu, is there a way to go forward with CHAPI support
Sarven Capadisli: Please refer to https://solidproject.org/TR/ for TR index.. and for Protocol: https://solidproject.org/TR/protocol
Manu Sporny: CHAPI is currently a poly-fill
... this is a sensitive situation
... CHAPI never needs to be built into the browser
Dmitri Zagidulin: (Though it certainly will be great when it is :) )
... but ideally it is built into the browser, it upgrades privacy
Sarven Capadisli: From SOLID, we dont need to wait for browser adoption
... if it happens, great, but not a concern for now
Manu Sporny: Moving on to other items, Decentralized IDs
... SOLID is very much built on the web, has its own DID method built on top of DID web
... the question is if SOLID will support more DIDs in the future, what are your thoughts sarven
Sarven Capadisli: The DID is new-ish to SOLID, its a way for connecting different environments
... we're looking into DIDkey, for example, to see how its being implemented
... DIDweb and DIDSolid is a jumping point for a DID environment to talk about later
Sarven Capadisli: https://solid.github.io/did-method-solid/
Wayne_Chang: thats a good opportunity to hear about DID Solid
Sarven Capadisli: Its a work in progress with Amy Guy and Dimitri Zadidulin
... DID web was under-specified for SOLID
... if it works against a SOLID server, it will work with HTP servers
... DID solid specifies the CRUD, more than the DID web, which is only read right now
Wayne_Chang: are you saying SOLID will specify how you update or delete items?
Sarven Capadisli: DID Web doesnt specify how you update/delete
Dmitri Zagidulin: @Wayne: exactly!
... DID Solid is on the other end, close to HTP
Heather Vescent: I was curious about general feedback from others
... practically, how can we work together CCG/SOLID?
Sarven Capadisli: Some are looking for clarificaitons on specs and if SOLID can assist with them
... compared to CCG we are smaller group
Manu Sporny: https://solid.github.io/did-method-solid/
... reading the specs and seeing overlap, starting to implement CCG work, providing feedback
... we should notice any conflicts between the groups, trajectory/focus
<heathervescent> Thanks
... bringing people together is starting to happen, I welcome more advice on what to do going forward
Phil L.: SOLID is a repository for credentials in general
... id like to see an overview of the VC model and how it would work with SOLID, what are the things SOLID might need
<by_caballero> /me EXCELLENT question
Manu Sporny: "Is there anything that conflicts" is a really good question
... we dont want to make things more complicated for any community
<phil.l> Is it fair to say that Solid then isn't an initial target for credential storage for VCs, e.g., as a wallet credential store?
... these are discussions that will take place naturally
Sarven Capadisli: Eg. https://github.com/solid/authorization-panel/issues/121
... like sarven said, we cant really discuss untill people start using the mechanisms
... SOLID has a bunch of higher-level concepts which is really useful for a wallet, but unsure if it will be used at the moment
Charles E. Lehner: https://github.com/w3c/did-spec-registries/pull/276 ← Conflict
Sarven Capadisli: :)
... we see very interresting discussions in the future
<csarven> YES!!! +1 heathervescent
Heather Vescent: A way to break the ice for the two groups is have a hackathon
<by_caballero> IIW?
Sarven Capadisli: PROPOSAL accepted :P
... have a great way to work together on the same issues
<manu_sporny> haha, Barcamp -- totally remember those days
... looking for a fun way to focus and enjoy time spent working together
Manu Sporny: +1 To being able to loosely coordinate
Juan Caballero: https://internetidentityworkshop.com/ ^ might be a good way to plan/scope/spitball such a collab?
... i love reading specs, but thinking of something different
Heather Vescent: Hackathon/barcamp/Q&A sessions would be great [scribe assist by Sarven Capadisli]
Manu Sporny: A +1 to the IIW/Barcamp idea from heathervescent
... sarven it might be good to look at overlap/workitems
... moving on -- protecting data/ VCs
... HTTP signatures might have overlap with SOLID, they have web access control stuff
<dmitriz> (Henry is investigating using HTTP Sigs for user authentication (which it's not really for))
... CCG uses them for EDV and Zcaps, these are common connections making different products between CCG/SOLID
... encrypted data vaults should be built in a way where the user knows their data is secure
... you and the people you've authorized are the only ones able to view the data
... EDVs are a potential for SOLID
Sarven Capadisli: Generally, what CCG has some very useful items for the SOLID group
... if we are not using something now, we are still studying it, getting towards usage
... im excited to see how we can adopt what CCG has to offer, less worried about conflicts, just working towards complete understanding on the specs
Manu Sporny: A specification we have been working on is in the next phase towards adoption
... DIDs are one of those standards, "a better type of identifier for you/businesses"
... provides security and confidence with next-get cryptography
... DIDs started in 2014, worked on it within CCG for a long time before proposing it to the membership group
... launched DID working group in 2019
... starting mid 2019, working group has been on this untill just recently
... we are currently in the cadidate recommendation phase, hopefully done by April/May
... we are testing non-stop, if all good we move onto a proposed recommendation phase
... that means we are "done" and it then moves to an official vote
<heathervescent> WooT! Congrats!
... hopefully done around September 30th, back to you Wayne
Wayne_Chang: thank you everyone for joining the call, things are looking good and progressing well
<csarven> CCG++
<cel> Thanks