[2021-03-31T17:00:28.749Z]	<robbie.jones@forgerock.com>	present+
[2021-03-31T17:00:38.133Z]	<manu>	present+
[2021-03-31T17:00:50.705Z]	<csarven>	present+
[2021-03-31T17:00:51.703Z]	<heathervescent>	present+
[2021-03-31T17:00:57.872Z]	<pete_M>	present+
[2021-03-31T17:01:53.558Z]	<cel>	present+
[2021-03-31T17:02:14.249Z]	<TallTed>	present+
[2021-03-31T17:02:45.373Z]	<by_caballero>	present+
[2021-03-31T17:02:52.247Z]	<TallTed>	(random Jitsi usage note -- Jitsi's display name has a shorter length limit than Zoom's ... )
[2021-03-31T17:03:55.986Z]	<manu>	wayne: We've been having a lot of good engagements with Solid, identifying concrete next steps.
[2021-03-31T17:04:47.198Z]	<Phil.L>	present+
[2021-03-31T17:04:49.740Z]	<dmitriz>	present+
[2021-03-31T17:04:53.717Z]	<Matthieu_Collé>	present+
[2021-03-31T17:05:03.508Z]	<JeffO-StL>	present+
[2021-03-31T17:05:07.212Z]	<Wayne_Chang>   Agenda: https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-credentials/2021Mar/0281.html
[2021-03-31T17:05:08.212Z]	<pete_M> wayne:   Agenda: Solid workgroup discussion and next steps
[2021-03-31T17:05:10.379Z]	<pete_M>	i can scribe
[2021-03-31T17:05:21.212Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	scribe: pete_M
[2021-03-31T17:05:24.118Z]	<manu>	scribe: pete_M
[2021-03-31T17:05:41.116Z]	<pete_M>	Wayne_Chang: Topic: Introductions & Reintroductions
[2021-03-31T17:06:37.537Z]	<manu>	pete_M: Hi, Pete -- I'm new here -- a student, here to learn about this exciting new ecosystem.
[2021-03-31T17:06:38.063Z]	<pete_M>	pete_M: excited to learn, im a student, lets have fun
[2021-03-31T17:06:56.549Z]	<pete_M>	Wayne_Chang: any reintroductions?
[2021-03-31T17:07:20.155Z]	<pete_M>	Wayne_Chang: Topic: Announcements & Reminders
[2021-03-31T17:07:29.863Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/community/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3A%22action%3A+review+next%22
[2021-03-31T17:07:32.352Z]	<pete_M>	... moving to progress on action items
[2021-03-31T17:07:32.764Z]	<Taylor>	present+
[2021-03-31T17:07:33.103Z]	<Kayode_Ezike>	present+
[2021-03-31T17:07:55.918Z]	<pete_M>	heathervescent: next week we are moving back to the old time Tues 9AM pacific
[2021-03-31T17:08:19.719Z]	<pete_M>	manu: announcement about DID core change if we have time
[2021-03-31T17:08:54.554Z]	<pete_M>	Wayne_Chang: action item review, is gimly_jack here? Anyone else can speak up
[2021-03-31T17:09:50.116Z]	<pete_M>	by_caballero: minutes are on github, link will be posted. This is a multi signature item
[2021-03-31T17:10:08.271Z]	<pete_M>	Wayne_Chang: next items, CHAPI Interop
[2021-03-31T17:10:31.525Z]	<pete_M>	... it meets criteria
[2021-03-31T17:10:58.473Z]	<pete_M>	... SOLID's parallels with CCG, and next steps for both ecosystems
[2021-03-31T17:11:35.155Z]	<pete_M>	manu: spoke with Sarven, spoke about potential overlaps
[2021-03-31T17:12:32.610Z]	<pete_M>	csarven: Intro -- working on SOLID for 5+ years
[2021-03-31T17:13:22.611Z]	<pete_M>	... committee group chair, busy working on tech specs and tech reports for SOLID
[2021-03-31T17:13:52.657Z]	<pete_M>	manu: Sarven's been around the the CG's for a while, great to have you here
[2021-03-31T17:14:14.051Z]	<pete_M>	... ill go down the list, summarizing overlap
[2021-03-31T17:14:36.562Z]	<pete_M>	... starting at the most basic layer moving upwards
[2021-03-31T17:14:55.995Z]	<pete_M>	... solid is working on things that we're not but need, lots of mutual benefit
[2021-03-31T17:15:21.300Z]	<pete_M>	... SOLID supports JSON-LD, which the CCG depends on quite a bit
[2021-03-31T17:15:45.358Z]	<pete_M>	... JSON-LD is a global standard (v1.1), we are all using it
[2021-03-31T17:16:24.638Z]	<pete_M>	... SOLID uses other stuff than JSON-LD. Any thoughts on JSON-LD Sarven?
[2021-03-31T17:16:50.638Z]	<pete_M>	csarven: its in the RDF family, i think its a thing that both groups agree on and work with
[2021-03-31T17:16:59.638Z]	<pete_M>	manu: SOLID uses stuff other than JSON-LD, maybe you could speak a bit to that?
[2021-03-31T17:17:05.638Z]	<pete_M>	csarven: fundamentally RDF 1.1 concepts we try to adhere to, min. requirements for SOLID servers to provide a representation for resources are JSON-LD and Turtle
[2021-03-31T17:17:15.638Z]	<pete_M>	... content negotiation is open and on the table, thats possible if applications want to ask for it, thats it on the RDF end
[2021-03-31T17:17:25.638Z]	<pete_M>	... SOLID servers are just generic HTTP servers with some understandings of linking, and JSON-LD happens to be one of the items we've got
[2021-03-31T17:17:45.638Z]	<pete_M>	... just a note here, one reason we chose JSON-LD, it can conform with some other specs out of the box
[2021-03-31T17:19:30.105Z]	<pete_M>	manu: that basically means, everything that this community is doing, SOLID pods can understand it at a very low level
[2021-03-31T17:19:35.105Z]	<pete_M>	... this is an example of what we're working on but SOLID isn't, but could use and build off of
[2021-03-31T17:19:40.105Z]	<pete_M>	... data models like: VC specs, extensions to specs. (Status List, Auto Refresh, crypto stuff), SOLID can consume the VC's work from CCG
[2021-03-31T17:19:50.105Z]	<pete_M>	... I think there's an expectation here that this community keeps working on the VC stuff, and the SOLID community is already/will use this work item coming up
[2021-03-31T17:20:00.105Z]	<pete_M>	... so thats a great example of something we're working on that is useful in the SOLID ecosystem
[2021-03-31T17:20:07.082Z]	<pete_M>	... VC discussion, how to move things I/O of solid pods, or for our community: digital wallets
[2021-03-31T17:20:07.243Z]	<econnell>	present+
[2021-03-31T17:20:46.564Z]	<pete_M>	... CCG has some very specific protocols on how to do this, SOLID has general protocols for using a Solid Pod
[2021-03-31T17:21:01.291Z]	<pete_M>	... both groups have a general awareness for data containers I/O
[2021-03-31T17:21:21.832Z]	<pete_M>	... maybe Solid pod supports credential handler API, or a Solid applicaiton might do that. Thoughts Sarven?
[2021-03-31T17:20:59.716Z]	<TallTed>	Digital Wallet has a fair number of requirements that I would not nnecessarily expect to be part of a Solid Pod.
[2021-03-31T17:21:12.609Z]	<TallTed>	Solid Pods are much more of a general storage space
[2021-03-31T17:21:38.490Z]	<pete_M>	csarven: i dont see major conflicts
[2021-03-31T17:22:09.132Z]	<pete_M>	... parts of the group depends on implementation
[2021-03-31T17:22:41.669Z]	<pete_M>	... some CHAPI specs are not representing what is, or where it's implemented
[2021-03-31T17:23:41.888Z]	<pete_M>	... we need to see if things will be optional, best-practices, etc
[2021-03-31T17:24:03.275Z]	<pete_M>	... SOLID is working to see what's missing, and what might work to remedy
[2021-03-31T17:24:24.431Z]	<pete_M>	Wayne_Chang: question about SOLID pod, where can we find info?
[2021-03-31T17:24:29.904Z]	<TallTed>	A Digital Wallet *app* might target a Solid Pod as its storage space.
[2021-03-31T17:24:38.172Z]	<pete_M>	csarven: its the main protocol spec
[2021-03-31T17:24:58.638Z]	<pete_M>	... most part compatible with LDP
[2021-03-31T17:25:22.202Z]	<pete_M>	... HTP server with some linkedin
[2021-03-31T17:25:23.827Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	https://solid.github.io/specification/
[2021-03-31T17:26:06.638Z]	<pete_M>	Wayne_Chang: manu, is there a way to go forward with CHAPI support
[2021-03-31T17:26:17.110Z]	<csarven>	please refer to https://solidproject.org/TR/ for TR index.. and for Protocol: https://solidproject.org/TR/protocol
[2021-03-31T17:26:19.320Z]	<pete_M>	manu: CHAPI is currently a poly-fill
[2021-03-31T17:26:52.868Z]	<pete_M>	... this is a sensitive situation
[2021-03-31T17:27:42.426Z]	<pete_M>	... CHAPI never needs to be built into the browser
[2021-03-31T17:27:57.801Z]	<pete_M>	... but ideally it is built into the browser, it upgrades privacy
[2021-03-31T17:27:57.026Z]	<dmitriz>	(though it certainly will be great when it is :) )
[2021-03-31T17:28:40.502Z]	<pete_M>	csarven: from SOLID, we dont need to wait for browser adoption
[2021-03-31T17:29:13.442Z]	<pete_M>	... if it happens, great, but not a concern for now
[2021-03-31T17:29:31.404Z]	<pete_M>	manu: moving on to other items, Decentralized IDs
[2021-03-31T17:30:00.717Z]	<pete_M>	... SOLID is very much built on the web, has its own DID method built on top of DID web
[2021-03-31T17:30:36.418Z]	<pete_M>	... the question is if SOLID will support more DIDs in the future, what are your thoughts sarven
[2021-03-31T17:30:59.441Z]	<pete_M>	csarven: the DID is new-ish to SOLID, its a way for connecting different environments
[2021-03-31T17:31:17.871Z]	<pete_M>	... we're looking into DIDkey, for example, to see how its being implemented
[2021-03-31T17:32:00.213Z]	<pete_M>	... DIDweb and DIDSolid is a jumping point for a DID environment to talk about later
[2021-03-31T17:00:28.749Z]	<robbie.jones@forgerock.com>	present+
[2021-03-31T17:00:38.133Z]	<manu>	present+
[2021-03-31T17:00:50.705Z]	<csarven>	present+
[2021-03-31T17:00:51.703Z]	<heathervescent>	present+
[2021-03-31T17:00:57.872Z]	<pete_M>	present+
[2021-03-31T17:01:53.558Z]	<cel>	present+
[2021-03-31T17:02:14.249Z]	<TallTed>	present+
[2021-03-31T17:02:45.373Z]	<by_caballero>	present+
[2021-03-31T17:03:55.986Z]	<manu>	wayne: We've been having a lot of good engagements with Solid, identifying concrete next steps.
[2021-03-31T17:04:47.198Z]	<Phil.L>	present+
[2021-03-31T17:04:49.740Z]	<dmitriz>	present+
[2021-03-31T17:04:53.717Z]	<Matthieu_Collé>	present+
[2021-03-31T17:05:03.508Z]	<JeffO-StL>	present+
[2021-03-31T17:05:07.212Z]	<Wayne_Chang>   Agenda: https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-credentials/2021Mar/0281.html
[2021-03-31T17:05:08.212Z]	<pete_M> wayne:   Agenda: Solid workgroup discussion and next steps
[2021-03-31T17:05:10.379Z]	<pete_M>	i can scribe
[2021-03-31T17:05:21.212Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	scribe: pete_M
[2021-03-31T17:05:24.118Z]	<manu>	scribe: pete_M
[2021-03-31T17:05:41.116Z]	<pete_M>	Wayne_Chang: Topic: Introductions & Reintroductions
[2021-03-31T17:06:37.537Z]	<manu>	pete_M: Hi, Pete -- I'm new here -- a student, here to learn about this exciting new ecosystem.
[2021-03-31T17:06:38.063Z]	<pete_M>	pete_M: excited to learn, im a student, lets have fun
[2021-03-31T17:06:56.549Z]	<pete_M>	Wayne_Chang: any reintroductions?
[2021-03-31T17:07:20.155Z]	<pete_M>	Wayne_Chang: Topic: Announcements & Reminders
[2021-03-31T17:07:29.863Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/community/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3A%22action%3A+review+next%22
[2021-03-31T17:07:32.352Z]	<pete_M>	... moving to progress on action items
[2021-03-31T17:07:32.764Z]	<Taylor>	present+
[2021-03-31T17:07:33.103Z]	<Kayode_Ezike>	present+
[2021-03-31T17:07:55.918Z]	<pete_M>	heathervescent: next week we are moving back to the old time Tues 9AM pacific
[2021-03-31T17:08:19.719Z]	<pete_M>	manu: announcement about DID core change if we have time
[2021-03-31T17:08:54.554Z]	<pete_M>	Wayne_Chang: action item review, is gimly_jack here? Anyone else can speak up
[2021-03-31T17:09:50.116Z]	<pete_M>	by_caballero: minutes are on github, link will be posted. This is a multi signature item
[2021-03-31T17:10:08.271Z]	<pete_M>	Wayne_Chang: next items, CHAPI Interop
[2021-03-31T17:10:31.525Z]	<pete_M>	... it meets criteria
[2021-03-31T17:10:58.473Z]	<pete_M>	... SOLID's parallels with CCG, and next steps for both ecosystems
[2021-03-31T17:11:35.155Z]	<pete_M>	manu: spoke with Sarven, spoke about potential overlaps
[2021-03-31T17:12:32.610Z]	<pete_M>	csarven: Intro -- working on SOLID for 5+ years
[2021-03-31T17:13:22.611Z]	<pete_M>	... committee group chair, busy working on tech specs and tech reports for SOLID
[2021-03-31T17:13:52.657Z]	<pete_M>	manu: Sarven's been around the the CG's for a while, great to have you here
[2021-03-31T17:14:14.051Z]	<pete_M>	... ill go down the list, summarizing overlap
[2021-03-31T17:14:36.562Z]	<pete_M>	... starting at the most basic layer moving upwards
[2021-03-31T17:14:55.995Z]	<pete_M>	... solid is working on things that we're not but need, lots of mutual benefit
[2021-03-31T17:15:21.300Z]	<pete_M>	... SOLID supports JSON-LD, which the CCG depends on quite a bit
[2021-03-31T17:15:45.358Z]	<pete_M>	... JSON-LD is a global standard (v1.1), we are all using it
[2021-03-31T17:16:24.638Z]	<pete_M>	... SOLID uses other stuff than JSON-LD. Any thoughts on JSON-LD Sarven?
[2021-03-31T17:16:50.638Z]	<pete_M>	csarven: its in the RDF family, i think its a thing that both groups agree on and work with
[2021-03-31T17:16:59.638Z]	<pete_M>	manu: SOLID uses stuff other than JSON-LD, maybe you could speak a bit to that?
[2021-03-31T17:17:05.638Z]	<pete_M>	csarven: fundamentally RDF 1.1 concepts we try to adhere to, min. requirements for SOLID servers to provide a representation for resources are JSON-LD and Turtle
[2021-03-31T17:17:15.638Z]	<pete_M>	... content negotiation is open and on the table, thats possible if applications want to ask for it, thats it on the RDF end
[2021-03-31T17:17:25.638Z]	<pete_M>	... SOLID servers are just generic HTTP servers with some understandings of linking, and JSON-LD happens to be one of the items we've got
[2021-03-31T17:17:45.638Z]	<pete_M>	... just a note here, one reason we chose JSON-LD, it can conform with some other specs out of the box
[2021-03-31T17:19:30.105Z]	<pete_M>	manu: that basically means, everything that this community is doing, SOLID pods can understand it at a very low level
[2021-03-31T17:19:35.105Z]	<pete_M>	... this is an example of what we're working on but SOLID isn't, but could use and build off of
[2021-03-31T17:19:40.105Z]	<pete_M>	... data models like: VC specs, extensions to specs. (Status List, Auto Refresh), crypto stuff, SOLID can consume the VC's work from CCG
[2021-03-31T17:19:50.105Z]	<pete_M>	... I think there's an expectation here that this community keeps working on the VC stuff, and the SOLID community is already/will use this work item coming up for the SOLID community
[2021-03-31T17:20:00.105Z]	<pete_M>	... so thats a great example of something we're working on that is useful in the SOLID ecosystem
[2021-03-31T17:20:07.082Z]	<pete_M>	... VC discussion: how to move things I/O of solid pods, or for our community: digital wallets. You can think of a Solid pods as a digital wallet, or a part of a digital wallet
[2021-03-31T17:20:07.243Z]	<econnell>	present+
[2021-03-31T17:20:46.564Z]	<pete_M>	... Then the question is "how to get data I/O from Solid pods?" and CCG has some very specific protocols on how to do this, SOLID has general protocols for using a Solid Pod
[2021-03-31T17:21:01.291Z]	<pete_M>	... both groups have a general awareness for data containers I/O
[2021-03-31T17:21:21.832Z]	<pete_M>	... maybe Solid pod supports the credential handler API, or a Solid applicaiton might do that. Thoughts Sarven?
[2021-03-31T17:20:59.716Z]	<TallTed>	Digital Wallet has a fair number of requirements that I would not nnecessarily expect to be part of a Solid Pod.
[2021-03-31T17:21:12.609Z]	<TallTed>	Solid Pods are much more of a general storage space
[2021-03-31T17:21:38.490Z]	<pete_M>	csarven: i dont see major conflicts
[2021-03-31T17:22:09.132Z]	<pete_M>	... parts of the group depends on implementation
[2021-03-31T17:22:41.669Z]	<pete_M>	... CHAPI and some of the other specs are not representing what is, or where it's implemented
[2021-03-31T17:23:41.888Z]	<pete_M>	... we need to see if things will be optional, best-practices, etc
[2021-03-31T17:24:03.275Z]	<pete_M>	... SOLID is working to see what's missing on our end, and what might work to remedy
[2021-03-31T17:24:24.431Z]	<pete_M>	Wayne_Chang: question about SOLID pod, where can we find info?
[2021-03-31T17:24:29.904Z]	<TallTed>	A Digital Wallet *app* might target a Solid Pod as its storage space.
[2021-03-31T17:24:38.172Z]	<pete_M>	csarven: its the main protocol spec, an extension of the HTTP server, RFC 7230 and 7231 for more details
[2021-03-31T17:24:58.638Z]	<pete_M>	... inteded to be compatible with LDP
[2021-03-31T17:25:22.202Z]	<pete_M>	... HTTP server with some linking understanding in a nutshell
[2021-03-31T17:25:23.827Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	https://solid.github.io/specification/
[2021-03-31T17:26:06.638Z]	<pete_M>	Wayne_Chang: manu, credential handler API question. is there a way to go forward with CHAPI support if the browser API doesn't support the credential handling?
[2021-03-31T17:26:17.110Z]	<csarven>	please refer to https://solidproject.org/TR/ for TR index.. and for Protocol: https://solidproject.org/TR/protocol
[2021-03-31T17:26:19.320Z]	<pete_M>	manu: excellent question. CHAPI is currently a poly-fill (things you want to have eventually existing in the browser but dont yet)
[2021-03-31T17:26:52.868Z]	<pete_M>	... getting browser vendors to adopt technology is a sensitive situation. Vendors want to see a broad ecosystem before they adopt it
[2021-03-31T17:27:42.426Z]	<pete_M>	... CHAPI never needs to be built into the browser, so the ecosystem can exist if vendors dont support it
[2021-03-31T17:27:57.801Z]	<pete_M>	... but ideally it is built into the browser, its an upgrade
[2021-03-31T17:27:57.026Z]	<dmitriz>	(though it certainly will be great when it is :) )
[2021-03-31T17:28:40.502Z]	<pete_M>	csarven: from SOLID, we dont need to wait for browser adoption if we adopt CHAPI
[2021-03-31T17:29:13.442Z]	<pete_M>	... if it happens, great, but not a concern for now
[2021-03-31T17:29:31.404Z]	<pete_M>	manu: moving on to other items, Decentralized Identifierss, built on DLTs and Blockchains
[2021-03-31T17:30:00.717Z]	<pete_M>	... correct me if I'm wrong: SOLID is very much built on the web, has its own DID method built on top of DID web
[2021-03-31T17:30:36.418Z]	<pete_M>	... the question is if SOLID will support more DID methods in the future, what are your thoughts sarven
[2021-03-31T17:30:59.441Z]	<pete_M>	csarven: the DID is new-ish to SOLID, its a way for connecting different environments
[2021-03-31T17:31:17.871Z]	<pete_M>	... we're looking into DIDkey, for example, to see how its being implemented, DIDs that are blockchaining on the end are a bit further away
[2021-03-31T17:32:00.213Z]	<pete_M>	... DIDweb and DIDSolid is a jumping point for a DID environment to talk about later
[2021-03-31T17:32:10.715Z]	<csarven>	https://solid.github.io/did-method-solid/
[2021-03-31T17:32:14.363Z]	<pete_M>	Wayne_Chang: thats a good opportunity to hear about DID Solid
[2021-03-31T17:32:34.165Z]	<pete_M>	csarven: its a work in progress with Amy Guy and Dimitri Zadidulin
[2021-03-31T17:32:55.911Z]	<pete_M>	... DID web was too generalized/under-specified for SOLID
[2021-03-31T17:33:26.852Z]	<pete_M>	... if it works against a SOLID server, it will work with HTTP servers
[2021-03-31T17:33:54.961Z]	<pete_M>	... DIDSolid specifies the CRUD, more than the DID web, which is only "read" right now
[2021-03-31T17:34:14.807Z]	<pete_M>	Wayne_Chang: are you saying SOLID will specify how you update or delete items?
[2021-03-31T17:34:50.810Z]	<pete_M>	csarven: DID Web doesnt specify how you update/delete, could work with HTTP/FTP servers
[2021-03-31T17:35:18.104Z]	<pete_M>	... DID Solid is on the other end, closer to HTTP
[2021-03-31T17:36:01.631Z]	<pete_M>	heathervescent: I was curious about general feedback from others
[2021-03-31T17:36:28.931Z]	<pete_M>	... practically, how can we work together CCG/SOLID?
[2021-03-31T17:37:41.452Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	https://solid.github.io/did-method-solid/
[2021-03-31T17:37:16.000Z]	<pete_M>	csarven: some are looking for clarificaitons on specs and if SOLID can assist with them
[2021-03-31T17:37:31.368Z]	<pete_M>	... and compared to CCG we are smaller group 
[2021-03-31T17:38:14.766Z]	<pete_M>	... I'm hoping people who are interested in VCs begin reading the specs and seeing overlap, starting to implement CCG work, providing more feedback to CCG
[2021-03-31T17:38:54.679Z]	<pete_M>	... for specifications: we should notice any conflicts between the group's trajectory/focus, and how to coordinate better
[2021-03-31T17:39:20.814Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	q+ to speak to "is there anything that conflicts" -- good question
[2021-03-31T17:39:56.191Z]	<pete_M>	... bringing people together is starting to happen, I welcome more advice on what to do going forward
[2021-03-31T17:40:09.608Z]	<pete_M>	Phil.L: i think this group is interested in SOLID as a repository for credentials in general
[2021-03-31T17:40:55.137Z]	<pete_M>	... id like to see an overview of the VC model and how presentations would work with SOLID, what are the things SOLID might need to build out?
[2021-03-31T17:41:20.000Z]	<pete_M>	csarven: hard to respond, working on encryption is really important, its an area that we are not covering. Dimitri might chime in here, but to what extent that overlaps with a SOLID pod would be good information.
[2021-03-31T17:41:57.906Z]	<pete_M>	manu: "is there anything that conflicts" is a really good question
[2021-03-31T17:42:16.813Z]	<pete_M>	... we dont want to make things more complicated, or duplicate effort for any community
[2021-03-31T17:42:26.813Z]	<pete_M>	... authorization capability / web access control stuff, I dont think they're in conflict, there are two ways to do different things
[2021-03-31T17:43:02.597Z]	<pete_M>	... these are discussions that will take place naturally between communities
[2021-03-31T17:43:39.724Z]	<pete_M>	... like sarven said, we cant really discuss until people start using the mechanisms
[2021-03-31T17:43:50.761Z]	<pete_M>	... I'm not so concerned about web access control/ zcap, but more about wallets/hubs/SOLID protocol stuff, because both groups are working on similar issues in their own corners
[2021-03-31T17:44:42.761Z]	<pete_M>	... SOLID has a bunch of higher-level concepts which is really useful for a wallet, but unsure if it will be used at the moment
[2021-03-31T17:45:13.344Z]	<pete_M>	... Potential conflict might be higher up on the stack and this is where i think we will see very interesting discussions in the future
[2021-03-31T17:42:29.943Z]	<Phil.L>	Is it fair to say that Solid then isn't an initial target for credential storage for VCs, e.g., as a wallet credential store?
[2021-03-31T17:43:15.498Z]	<csarven>	eg. https://github.com/solid/authorization-panel/issues/121
[2021-03-31T17:44:59.497Z]	<cel>	https://github.com/w3c/did-spec-registries/pull/276 ← Conflict
[2021-03-31T17:46:43.566Z]	<pete_M>	heathervescent: a way to break the ice for the two groups is have a hackathon
[2021-03-31T17:46:55.415Z]	<pete_M>	... have a great way to work together on the same issues
[2021-03-31T17:47:27.324Z]	<pete_M>	... looking for a fun way to focus and enjoy time spent working together
[2021-03-31T17:47:49.086Z]	<pete_M>	... i love reading specs, but thinking of something different
[2021-03-31T17:48:37.162Z]	<csarven>	heathervescent: hackathon/barcamp/Q&A sessions would be great
[2021-03-31T17:46:45.978Z]	<by_caballero>	IIW?
[2021-03-31T17:46:37.080Z]	<csarven>	YES!!! +1 heathervescent
[2021-03-31T17:46:48.959Z]	<csarven>	PROPOSAL accepted :P
[2021-03-31T17:47:30.816Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	+1 to being able to loosely coordinate
[2021-03-31T17:47:46.644Z]	<by_caballero>	https://internetidentityworkshop.com/
^ might be a good way to plan/scope/spitball such a collab?
[2021-03-31T17:48:41.869Z]	<pete_M>	manu: a +1 to the IIW/Barcamp idea from heathervescent
[2021-03-31T17:49:24.519Z]	<pete_M>	... sarven it might be good to look at overlap/workitems
[2021-03-31T17:49:40.397Z]	<pete_M>	... moving on -- protecting data/ VCs
[2021-03-31T17:50:11.603Z]	<pete_M>	... HTTP signatures might have overlap with SOLID, they have web access control stuff
[2021-03-31T17:50:44.982Z]	<pete_M>	... CCG uses them for EDV and Zcaps, these are common connections making different products between CCG/SOLID
[2021-03-31T17:51:15.857Z]	<pete_M>	... encrypted data vaults should be built in a way where the user knows their data is secure
[2021-03-31T17:51:39.109Z]	<pete_M>	... you and the people you've authorized are the only ones able to view the data
[2021-03-31T17:51:57.469Z]	<pete_M>	... EDVs are a potential for SOLID
[2021-03-31T17:50:29.981Z]	<dmitriz>	(Henry is investigating using HTTP Sigs for user authentication (which it's not really for))
[2021-03-31T17:52:41.098Z]	<pete_M>	csarven: generally, what CCG has some very useful items for the SOLID group
[2021-03-31T17:53:07.385Z]	<pete_M>	... if we are not using something now, we are still studying it, getting towards usage
[2021-03-31T17:54:11.513Z]	<pete_M>	... im excited to see how we can adopt what CCG has to offer, less worried about conflicts, just working towards complete understanding on the specs
[2021-03-31T17:55:16.781Z]	<pete_M>	manu: a specification we have been working on is in the next phase towards adoption
[2021-03-31T17:55:41.189Z]	<pete_M>	... DIDs are one of those standards, "a better type of identifier for you/businesses"
[2021-03-31T17:56:01.727Z]	<pete_M>	... provides security and confidence with next-get cryptography
[2021-03-31T17:56:32.878Z]	<pete_M>	... DIDs started in 2014, worked on it within CCG for a long time before proposing it to the membership group
[2021-03-31T17:56:55.893Z]	<pete_M>	... launched DID working group in 2019
[2021-03-31T17:57:49.955Z]	<pete_M>	... starting mid 2019, working group has been on this untill just recently
[2021-03-31T17:58:08.223Z]	<pete_M>	... we are currently in the cadidate recommendation phase, hopefully done by April/May
[2021-03-31T17:58:42.728Z]	<pete_M>	... we are testing non-stop, if all good we move onto a proposed recommendation phase
[2021-03-31T17:58:57.093Z]	<pete_M>	... that means we are "done" and it then moves to an official vote
[2021-03-31T17:59:18.419Z]	<pete_M>	... hopefully done around September 30th, back to you Wayne
[2021-03-31T17:59:03.481Z]	<heathervescent>	WooT! Congrats!
[2021-03-31T17:59:50.835Z]	<pete_M>	Wayne_Chang: thank you everyone for joining the call, things are looking good and progressing well