Thanks to Our Robot Overlords for scribing this week!

The transcript for the call is now available here:

https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/2025-01-14/

Full text of the discussion follows for W3C archival purposes.
Audio of the meeting is available at the following location:

https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/2025-01-14/audio.ogg

A video recording is also available at:

https://meet.w3c-ccg.org/archives/w3c-ccg-weekly-2025-01-14.mp4

----------------------------------------------------------------
W3C CCG Weekly Teleconference Transcript for 2025-01-14

Agenda:
  https://www.w3.org/Search/Mail/Public/advanced_search?hdr-1-name=subject&hdr-1-query=%5BAGENDA&period_month=Jan&period_year=2025&index-grp=Public__FULL&index-type=t&type-index=public-credentials&resultsperpage=20&sortby=date
Organizer:
  Harrison Tang, Kimberly Linson, Will Abramson
Scribe:
  Our Robot Overlords
Present:
  Harrison Tang, Daniel Buchner, Nis Jespersen , Erica Connell, 
  Will Abramson, Kaliya Young, Mike Xu, Sharon Leu, Jennie M, 
  Dmitri Zagidulin, TallTed // Ted Thibodeau (he/him) 
  (OpenLinkSw.com), Gerald Glickman, Greg Bernstein, Manu Sporny, 
  Jay Stanley(ACLU), Joe Andrieu, James Chartrand, Jeff O / 
  HumanOS, PDL-ASU, Tim Bloomfield, Robert Long, Elissa, Brandi 
  Delancey, Mahmoud Alkhraishi, Kayode Ezike, Anthony Camilleri, 
  Colin Reynolds, Ed Design Lab

<harrison_tang> @Jay, Do you want to test the audio a little bit? 
   You are on mute
<jay_stanley_(aclu)> Did you hear my test?
<harrison_tang> Do you mind using Chrome?  Jitsi might run into 
  issues with other browsers
<dkg> checking in from IRC directly â˜º
Our Robot Overlords are scribing.
Harrison_Tang: Welcome welcome everyone uh to uh this week's w3c 
  ccg meeting uh so today we're very excited to have J and Daniel 
  from ACLU to actually talk about HCL digital identity uh State 
  Legislative recommendations uh at our meeting today uh but before 
  we uh start the main agenda I just want to uh quickly go over 
  some administrative stuff uh first of all just uh quick reminder 
  on the code of ethics and professional conduct just want to make 
  sure we have uh no constructive and respectful conversations.
Harrison_Tang: Quick note on the intellectual property anyone can 
  participate in these calls however all substantive contributions 
  to the ccg work guidance must be members of the ccg with a full 
  IPR agreement signed so if you have any questions regards to 
  joining the w3c or the uh IPR agreement uh just let any of the 
  cultures know.
Harrison_Tang: Sound quick notes on the call so these meetings 
  are automatically recorded and transcribed and that we will 
  publish the meeting minutes the audio and video recording in the 
  next uh day or 2.
Harrison_Tang: We used to uh we use a GT chat to cue the speakers 
  during the call so you can type in Q Plus to add yourself to the 
  queue or cue minus to remove and you can uh type in Q question 
  mark uh to see who's in the queue.
Harrison_Tang: All right just want to take a moment for the 
  introductions and re reintroduction so if you are new to the 
  community or you haven't been active and want to re-engage just 
  feel free to unmute you don't need to do that Q Plus Q minus 
  thing just unmute and introduce yourself a little bit.
Harrison_Tang: All right uh.
Harrison_Tang: But at the end of the meeting like we got some 
  time uh if you feel Brave uh you can just uh.
Harrison_Tang: Reduce yourself at a later time.
Harrison_Tang: All right uh announcements and reminders uh any 
  announcements or reminders uh for the upcoming events on you 
  please.
Manu Sporny:  Yeah just a quick reminder to everyone that the 
  verifiable credentials 20 work is starting to wrap up so we we 
  are feature-complete we are 9 months ago um we are now spec 
  complete on 7 specifications that's verifiable credentials 20 
  data Integrity ecdsa eddsa um uh bitstring status list for 
  privacy preserving uh status information for verifiable 
  credentials VC hosie cozy and I know I'm missing uh 1 or 2 specs 
  in there but it's a lot of specs and uh right now uh we are 
  through all the tagged design reviews and privacy reviews and 
  things like that we're still waiting on some Security reviews but 
  once that's done we will uh push forward into uh the global 
  standard uh vote for all these specifications we are expecting 
  that to happen sometime in q1 2020.
Manu Sporny:  Um uh and then uh the more privacy preserving um uh 
  uh data Integrity uh work around uh BBS and on linkable uh 
  signatures and things like that will shortly follow uh thereafter 
  um so that's just a heads up so if anyone wants to do a final 
  read of the specifications now is definitely the time to do it we 
  believe that we have addressed uh you know all things that were 
  raised in public and in the working group um the other uh good 
  news is that um the new cryptography for privacy preserving uh 
  digital signatures uh the BBS work at ITF uh specifically uh the 
  pseudonyms uh extensions and the blind BBS uh extensions were 
  adopted there was a huge turnout so thank you very much for those 
  of you that supported the adoption of that work um it will 
  continue.
Manu Sporny:   To be.
Manu Sporny:  I don't know over the next 6 months or so they are 
  already multiple implementations of it uh for verifiable 
  credentials and um.
Manu Sporny:  We are looking for security reviews from the 
  community we already have a number of uh uh cryptographers that 
  focus on unlined digital signatures uh focused on that Security 
  review um we hope that will be done probably by summer of this 
  year so good good news uh there as well um that's it for the 
  updates.
Harrison_Tang: Thank you man.
Kaliya Young:  Of several um.
Kaliya Young:  We have um.
Kaliya Young:  The dead on conference Africa coming up in um.
Kaliya Young: https://didunconf.africa/
Kaliya Young:  The 18th to the 20th in Cape Town I'll put a link 
  to that um.
Kaliya Young:  Have a digital unconference.
Kaliya Young: https://diceurope.org/submitted-topics
Kaliya Young:  Digital identity on conference Europe or dice is 
  having um like a kind of mini conference that's just 2 days in 
  March focused on ecosystem development and growth because there's 
  so much um activity happening in Europe in that realm I posted a 
  link to actually the.
Kaliya Young:   The list.
Kaliya Young:  That folks have.
Kaliya Young: https://internetidentityworkshop.com/
Kaliya Young:  Suggested so far um iiw 40 oh my God we're getting 
  old is coming up in April the um.
Kaliya Young:  Is to the 10th.
Kaliya Young: https://fediforum.org/
Kaliya Young:  And um finally um there's another um event that 
  I've been working on with Johannes for a few years The fetty 
  Forum is going to happen again our fifth 1 April 1st happening 
  with like at protocol and.
Kaliya Young:  Um Mastadon so like it's sort of um we're not just 
  about Macedon and activity Pub the event is really sort of the 
  whole decentralized.
Kaliya Young:  Base um so if you are folks you know are in that 
  realm please share that with them and invite them along and 
  that's virtual it's um not and it's just online so.
Kaliya Young:  Um European and Us hours it's amenable to.
Kaliya Young:  Thanks very much.
Harrison_Tang: Any other announcements or reminders.
Kaliya Young:  Announcements or reminder.
Harrison_Tang: All right a quick preview of what's coming so next 
  week uh we have Andrea uh to talk about the post-quantum 
  cryptography PQ and pqt approaches and the week after that we 
  have hadrien uh from solid and interrupt to talk about uh solid 
  and decentralized data stores and then the week after that we'll 
  have Drummond uh to talk about again uh Global acceptance 
  Network.
Harrison_Tang: All right last calls for announcements and 
  reminders.
Harrison_Tang: Updates on the work items.
Harrison_Tang: Yeah we'll have the.
Manu Sporny:  Yeah so with the with the kind of global 
  standardization of the verifiable credential 20 work um there are 
  some things that uh some features we weren't able to get to 
  standardizing and so those will come into play uh that includes 
  render method which allows credential issuers to express how they 
  would like their additional credential uh rendered their 
  verifiable credential displayed to the individual and that 
  includes rendering in visual form audio form and wireless form 
  like NS NFC transmission um so that's the render method work is 
  expected to to pick up so we are incubating that work in the ccg 
  right now and we'll transition that to the working group um the 
  other uh uh thing has to do with confidence method like how do 
  you know the person standing in front of you is the person that 
  the credential you know goes with um uh being able to 
  selectively.
Manu Sporny:   Disclose that.
Manu Sporny:  Like a bleed.
Manu Sporny:  Disclose that stuff as well as like you know when 
  they were issued the credential you know their driver's license 
  was checked or something like that um so that uh people know what 
  kind of you know binding happened at the time of credential 
  issuance um uh and also allowing the individual to consent to the 
  release of that uh mechanism or not uh depending on the use case 
  um.
Manu Sporny:  So those those items uh we are working on trying to 
  figure out how to you know transition that stuff we know 
  Singapore government has done some work on on their own render 
  method they've got their own um uh.
Manu Sporny:  Disclosure scheme for like um supply chain 
  documents as well uh Calvin sent an email to the ccg about that 
  so those those items are now under active development there's 
  also work going on with diff around um standardizing some 
  decentralized identifiers methods uh so that work will will be 
  happening uh we are having a meeting tomorrow in diff uh on on 
  that um joint work item between ccg and deaf uh that's it.
Harrison_Tang: Thank you thanks man.
Harrison_Tang: And we'll hold uh work item review and updates uh 
  as well as uh open discussion uh sometime in March March 11th or 
  18th.
Harrison_Tang: All right uh last calls for introductions 
  reintroductions announcements and work items.
Harrison_Tang: All right let's get to the main agenda so the you 
  know last October uh I think manuh shared uh in Ka actually share 
  a blog post from HCL you about their digital ID identity they 
  recommendations.
Harrison_Tang: It's very quite a bit of a great discussions uh I 
  think there's like 20 comments or something like that in that 
  thread and uh we were very excited to actually have the 
  opportunity to invite J and Daniel here uh to talk about that so 
  Jay and Daniel the 4 is yours.
Daniel_Kahn_Gillmor_(dkg)_[ACLU]_[he_or_they]: Thank you Harrison 
  um and thanks everybody for for um turning up and for the 
  commentary that you've already had on the list um so Jay and I 
  have been working uh along with other folks within the ACLU and 
  folks outside the ACLU on a set of.
Daniel_Kahn_Gillmor_(dkg)_[ACLU]_[he_or_they]: Uh that is 
  guidance for um governments that are looking to push forward 
  digital IDs as to what we think they should be asking for when 
  they ask for it so I have a a slide deck here uh it's not a super 
  deep slide deck um but it will hit on the points and I'm hoping 
  to talk through them.
Daniel_Kahn_Gillmor_(dkg)_[ACLU]_[he_or_they]: And I would invite 
  those of you who have questions to um to chime in in the meantime 
  I'm gonna go ahead and start sharing a screen here uh with this 
  slides.
Daniel_Kahn_Gillmor_(dkg)_[ACLU]_[he_or_they]: So let's see can 
  folks see these slides.
Daniel_Kahn_Gillmor_(dkg)_[ACLU]_[he_or_they]: Okay great um so 
  uh alright so our goal here is to just walk you through some of 
  the legislative guidance that we have not because we think that 
  you are legislators uh we understand that that is not what the 
  ccg is um but because we actually think that the legislators need 
  to be able to point to specific mechanisms um to make it to make 
  things uh work out the way they want and so uh My Hope for this 
  conversation is that we can help uh you figure out how to frame 
  your specifications in such a way that legislators will want to 
  adopt your specs because they meet the goals that we have at the 
  ACLU.
Daniel_Kahn_Gillmor_(dkg)_[ACLU]_[he_or_they]:  and just.
Daniel_Kahn_Gillmor_(dkg)_[ACLU]_[he_or_they]: Uh frame setting 
  here I know there's a lot of different ways people talk about 
  these models um in this talk I will try to say holder issuer and 
  verifier as the 3-party model I know that there are other terms 
  that people use for this um.
Daniel_Kahn_Gillmor_(dkg)_[ACLU]_[he_or_they]: Setting up the the 
  users thing between the holder and the and the verifier uh 
  between the holder and the issuer is called provisioning I'm 
  going to say presentation for holder and verifier um.
Daniel_Kahn_Gillmor_(dkg)_[ACLU]_[he_or_they]: Anyway I know that 
  there are other other models like this is 1 that was recently 
  published in nist among several actually published in this this 
  document where we call the verifier the relying party and we call 
  the.
Daniel_Kahn_Gillmor_(dkg)_[ACLU]_[he_or_they]: Uh the certificate 
  provider or something like that anyway I'm just going to stick 
  with these with these um with holder issue or verifier for now 
  but I want to acknowledge that there are other models including 
  models that are more complex than this simple 3-party model um 
  that are under consideration by legislators today um and I want 
  to just focus in on the on some of the trade-offs that we're 
  seeing between these different models.
Daniel_Kahn_Gillmor_(dkg)_[ACLU]_[he_or_they]: Um and also just 
  of course both Jay and I work at the American civil liberties 
  Union the ACLU is a over 100 year old um us civil liberties 
  organization we focused here on American legislators because 
  that's who we can really talk to but hopefully these goals are 
  will translate to folks in other um jurisdictions um the types of 
  values that we have are Freedom privacy transparency and this 
  last 1 I sort of broke out separately I wanted to point out that 
  the user is in control and what we don't want is we don't want 
  devices that oblige the user to do things that they decide they 
  don't want to do and we don't want those devices to be embedded 
  in systems that oblige the users to do things that they don't 
  want to do.
Daniel_Kahn_Gillmor_(dkg)_[ACLU]_[he_or_they]:  um we.
Daniel_Kahn_Gillmor_(dkg)_[ACLU]_[he_or_they]: Get all the way 
  there but this is the this is the target what we're what we're 
  aiming for.
Daniel_Kahn_Gillmor_(dkg)_[ACLU]_[he_or_they]: So yeah so and 
  then of course again this is legislative guidance we are talking 
  about these things to um people who make the laws and the 
  regulations um.
Daniel_Kahn_Gillmor_(dkg)_[ACLU]_[he_or_they]: Those folks don't 
  have the level of technical depth that you have even the ones who 
  are best staffed don't have the level of technical depth that the 
  folks in the ccg or other standards developers typically have um 
  they're really working from uh a a very different perspective and 
  so in the course of making these recommendations we have tried to 
  tie what we think the legislators will ask for.
Daniel_Kahn_Gillmor_(dkg)_[ACLU]_[he_or_they]:  through what.
Daniel_Kahn_Gillmor_(dkg)_[ACLU]_[he_or_they]: We think the 
  mechanisms um.
Daniel_Kahn_Gillmor_(dkg)_[ACLU]_[he_or_they]: That the that can 
  be offered today from the technologies that are available today 
  um or might be available in the near future and so hopefully this 
  framing will encourage you to think about your work from that 
  perspective.
Daniel_Kahn_Gillmor_(dkg)_[ACLU]_[he_or_they]: Because we can all 
  just like make arbitrary Tech and throw it out in the world but 
  as soon as a government comes and says here's what here's what 
  the options actually are that's going to change the game for 
  everybody on the ground.
Jay_Stanley(ACLU): And I would just add that I mean a lot of the 
  motivation for us creating this document is a fear.
Jay_Stanley(ACLU): That these mdls which don't really have uh a 
  lot of the Privacy protections that are completely um you know or 
  are nearing feasibility.
Jay_Stanley(ACLU): Um are just going to become a standardized 
  without be partly because nobody sort of in the legislature's 
  understands the potential for privacy protection the importance 
  of it and so forth and that the mdl is a sub-optimal mdl.
Jay_Stanley(ACLU):  will just.
Jay_Stanley(ACLU): Steamroll all the efforts uh here among among 
  among you all and and elsewhere around the world in creating 
  sophisticated more sophisticated privacy protecting protecting 
  IDs I mean the DMVs.
Jay_Stanley(ACLU): The ability to put an ID and everybody's 
  wallet.
Jay_Stanley(ACLU): Um and that's an enormous power and and my 
  fear is that we're seeing the states adopting and embracing 
  without any thought these suboptimal IDs um and so this 
  legislative document is an attempt to educate legislators um and 
  to get them to to to put some of these requirements into the 
  state laws that are enabling these things.
Jay_Stanley(ACLU): And to force the larger Eco evolving ecosystem 
  to uh adopt these Technologies.
Daniel_Kahn_Gillmor_(dkg)_[ACLU]_[he_or_they]: Um and and by the 
  way this is happening like we see the state legislators who are 
  just eager to look like we're on The Cutting Edge or I'm on The 
  Cutting Edge check out my shiny new toys um and I'm I'm sure you 
  all understand that the shiny new toys come with some sharp edges 
  and we'd like to make sure that those.
Daniel_Kahn_Gillmor_(dkg)_[ACLU]_[he_or_they]: Are not mandated.
Daniel_Kahn_Gillmor_(dkg)_[ACLU]_[he_or_they]: So 1 example of a 
  specific thing that the ACLU has a pretty clear view on is if you 
  are stopped by the police and they ask you for your ID they 
  should not be able to just take your device from you to get the 
  ID right if your ID is on a mobile device you could imagine a cop 
  saying well give me your ID and your ID's on your device 
  therefore give me your device and therefore I can go do whatever 
  I want to with this device.
Daniel_Kahn_Gillmor_(dkg)_[ACLU]_[he_or_they]: Uh the cops 
  already think that it's okay to do uh what we would consider to 
  be um over Broad and unjustified searches of digital devices and 
  this would be you know this would be 1 example of a specific 
  outcome of everybody moving their ID to a device that we think 
  would be a disaster um in terms of civil liberties we don't think 
  that the police should be able to do arbitrary searches on your 
  device and we don't think they should even be consider able to 
  consider asking to handle your device so as you think about the 
  implementation and where they're going to run I know this group 
  is focused on protocol level Network level stuff um but we really 
  do encourage you to think about how is the user going to use 
  their device to prove their credential in a situation like a 
  traffic stop that does not involve turning their physical device 
  over to the hands of an officer because if we can get the 
  legislators to do this right they will mandate that the cops 
  aren't even allowed to ask to hold your ID.
Daniel_Kahn_Gillmor_(dkg)_[ACLU]_[he_or_they]: You've made it so 
  that oh well you know this system could be set up so that the cop 
  doesn't have to hold the phone they just have to you know so the 
  cop has to hold the phone briefly then that's that's going to 
  limit what we can legislate um so we want to make sure that these 
  systems are are accessible and available to the police without 
  the police picking up the phone so this is 1 example of the kinds 
  of things that we would.
Daniel_Kahn_Gillmor_(dkg)_[ACLU]_[he_or_they]: Would like to 
  stress right you can you can make a system that does that enables 
  this and you can also make a system that um that that can't meet 
  this requirement.
Jay_Stanley(ACLU): And um our legislative recommendations are a 
  mix of sort of technological requirements we have the East 
  privacy protection Technologies um we the state legislature are 
  going to insist that they actually be incorporated into a state 
  digital driver's license um and also policy um just pure policy 
  prescriptions and this would be an example Banning Police from 
  you know doing so-called consent searches um of phones which is 
  where the real abuse is because.
Jay_Stanley(ACLU):  um you know.
<harrison_tang> <ACLU Digital ID State Legislative 
  Recommendations>
Jay_Stanley(ACLU): Search a phone normally without a warrant but 
  if you can with that person's permission and um actually the 
  nonprofit upturned did a great report on just how much abuse 
  there is with the police saying hey do you mind if I look at 
  something in your phone sir and the person gives their phone over 
  and then the police disappear with it and copy the whole thing 
  using broadly available forensic software.
Daniel_Kahn_Gillmor_(dkg)_[ACLU]_[he_or_they]: Right so so you 
  know the this guidance isn't necessarily all protocol level but 
  the choice is made in the protocol can make this guidance 
  possible or not.
Daniel_Kahn_Gillmor_(dkg)_[ACLU]_[he_or_they]:  so we.
Daniel_Kahn_Gillmor_(dkg)_[ACLU]_[he_or_they]: Really hope that 
  that that's the that's the friend you can take these suggestions 
  here.
Daniel_Kahn_Gillmor_(dkg)_[ACLU]_[he_or_they]: Um so you know 
  some of the architectures not the not the the model with the user 
  controlled wallet but some of these architectures involve a 
  phoning home situation where somebody you could imagine someone 
  sitting at the switchboard of the issuer who is merely collecting 
  um logs of every single time any given ID is used um with any 
  verifier right and that's a very intense map of of metadata about 
  how the society Works um and it's even more intense as these 
  credentials move on online right I mean do we want to have some 
  Central issuer able to tell.
Daniel_Kahn_Gillmor_(dkg)_[ACLU]_[he_or_they]: Who is um.
<greg_bernstein> Or any "linkable" ar.tifact
Daniel_Kahn_Gillmor_(dkg)_[ACLU]_[he_or_they]: Uh you know who is 
  presenting their ID at what sites you know you could build a very 
  quick map of every religious minority every um sexual or gender 
  minority every political dissident um you could you could do that 
  pretty easily with a phoning home situation and so we want the 
  legislators to be able to say it is not acceptable for these 
  systems to phone home to the issuer um or really to we we want to 
  discourage the creation of of sort of centralized databases like 
  this but certainly the issue or tend to be the state should not 
  get a view of every presentation and that comes into play in in 
  not only in I mean you can design a system where there's a phone 
  home every time and it doesn't work without that obviously 
  verifiable credentials doesn't doesn't go in that direction.
Daniel_Kahn_Gillmor_(dkg)_[ACLU]_[he_or_they]: Is it you know 
  this is an example hopefully you can point towards these kinds of 
  recommendations when you're advocating for your technology to say 
  hey we are not doing anyone home.
Daniel_Kahn_Gillmor_(dkg)_[ACLU]_[he_or_they]: This interacts 
  interestingly with revocation which I'll get to in a little bit.
Daniel_Kahn_Gillmor_(dkg)_[ACLU]_[he_or_they]: Because many 
  revocation systems also happen to have some kinds of privacy 
  legation so there are some trade-offs there.
Daniel_Kahn_Gillmor_(dkg)_[ACLU]_[he_or_they]: We think those 
  trade-offs are easy to make but not everyone is going to agree 
  with them.
Daniel_Kahn_Gillmor_(dkg)_[ACLU]_[he_or_they]: And we think 
  there's a right answer there on how you do how you handle those 
  kinds of Revenue.
Daniel_Kahn_Gillmor_(dkg)_[ACLU]_[he_or_they]: Um the second 
  thing and this has already been somewhat discussed uh here I 
  really appreciate the work on selective disclosure that's 
  happened you know with within the verifiable credentials and with 
  other mechanisms but we really want someone to be able to present 
  only the information that's necessary um and not release 
  everything else so this is the the photo here is.
Daniel_Kahn_Gillmor_(dkg)_[ACLU]_[he_or_they]: An example of me 
  doing what ought to work when I'm you know in the process of 
  going to the store to buy an age limited product like alcohol or 
  cannabis or tobacco um but it's not actually what happens today 
  in the physical world right in the physical world you have to 
  give somebody your actual driver's license and if you try to give 
  them your driver's license mask like this they'll look at you 
  funny and you know you're going to hold up the whole line and 
  then they'll be a fight and eventually be on the either walking 
  out of the store showing them your driver's license we have the 
  opportunity to do this with digital credentials and we want you 
  know for every legislator that thinks they want to have the shiny 
  new hotness and they want to be the 1 to advance the future we 
  want those legislators to understand that we have opportunities 
  with digital IDs that you don't.
Daniel_Kahn_Gillmor_(dkg)_[ACLU]_[he_or_they]:  with a.
Daniel_Kahn_Gillmor_(dkg)_[ACLU]_[he_or_they]: And that a digital 
  ID should enable this kind of thing which is not currently 
  enabled with a physical ID um and if they don't get that if 
  they're just like we want it to be on the phone because phones 
  are cool then we want to say you know you're doing this the wrong 
  way selective disclosure is a classic simple example of that um 
  if it's done right um.
Daniel_Kahn_Gillmor_(dkg)_[ACLU]_[he_or_they]: So uh yeah I mean 
  in this case actually this is the selective disclosure in the in 
  the image here is is even more information.
Daniel_Kahn_Gillmor_(dkg)_[ACLU]_[he_or_they]: Than what we 
  really want to give I don't want to tell people you know that 
  that's my birth year I just want them to know that I'm over the 
  age limit um if that's what I'm showing my ID for and I certainly 
  don't want them to see other things like my legal name or my 
  address or my driver's license ID number.
Daniel_Kahn_Gillmor_(dkg)_[ACLU]_[he_or_they]: On top of 
  selective disclosure we also want on linkability.
Daniel_Kahn_Gillmor_(dkg)_[ACLU]_[he_or_they]: And um it's been a 
  trick to try to describe this to uh legislative staff because 
  it's not you know this distinction here is pretty subtle.
Daniel_Kahn_Gillmor_(dkg)_[ACLU]_[he_or_they]: What we want is we 
  want someone so so also unlink can't work in every scenario right 
  when the cops pull you over and they want to see your license 
  they're not going to look for an unlink presentation um their 
  goal is to find out whether you have any outstanding warrants and 
  to link you to whatever your history is.
Daniel_Kahn_Gillmor_(dkg)_[ACLU]_[he_or_they]: Um and you know 
  arguably when the bank is doing a credit card you know a credit 
  check they also don't want to be they they're not going to accept 
  an unlink presentation.
Daniel_Kahn_Gillmor_(dkg)_[ACLU]_[he_or_they]:  so we can't.
Daniel_Kahn_Gillmor_(dkg)_[ACLU]_[he_or_they]: Assume that any 
  digital ID system like this will only provide unlink 
  presentations because there will be scenarios where linkability 
  is the point.
Daniel_Kahn_Gillmor_(dkg)_[ACLU]_[he_or_they]: That said this the 
  image that's on the page here by the way is a a graph of the 
  communications linkages between different participants in the 
  American Revolution so for those of you who you know are fans of 
  the American Revolution this is a this is a a metadata analysis 
  based on linkability of long-term identities and their 
  associations with other people to determine um who's a central uh 
  central figure here you can see Paul River there in the middle.
Daniel_Kahn_Gillmor_(dkg)_[ACLU]_[he_or_they]: Um so we want to 
  minimize the amount of linkability that's there we want to be 
  able we want the legislators to be able to say you know here 
  isn't a scenario where you can ask for someone's ID but you must 
  only ask for unlink here.
Daniel_Kahn_Gillmor_(dkg)_[ACLU]_[he_or_they]: Um right so if I 
  mean going back to the example of presenting your proof of age in 
  order to buy an age gated product we don't want that presentation 
  to permit linkability across multiple presentations.
Daniel_Kahn_Gillmor_(dkg)_[ACLU]_[he_or_they]: Even if the name 
  is obscured or occluded or the driver's license ID is obscured or 
  included we don't want.
Daniel_Kahn_Gillmor_(dkg)_[ACLU]_[he_or_they]: Anyone involved in 
  the system including the issuer the state or the commercial 
  companies that will provide verification services to be able to 
  say aha the same person who presented this particular um ID to 
  get cigarettes also presented the same ID to get uh alcohol down 
  the street or cigarettes again every week right we that that 
  liability is something that I'm sure that there are some 
  surveillance economy companies would love to have but not 
  something that we think um should be the default in the system 
  that said there is some us there some user experience trickiness 
  here how is the user supposed to know when they're in a linkable 
  versus unlabel State um and I think there's a lot of open 
  questions here about how we communicate these different 
  properties to reinforce that idea that the user is in control.
Daniel_Kahn_Gillmor_(dkg)_[ACLU]_[he_or_they]: 1 definitely comes 
  into play for the legislature um but it also you know when you 
  think about the positions of cryptographic authority and any of 
  these digital identities are going to have cryptographic 
  mechanisms involved and there will be sources of cryptographic 
  authority um that permit you to participate for example the 
  verifiers might only accept credentials that are issued by the 
  state.
Daniel_Kahn_Gillmor_(dkg)_[ACLU]_[he_or_they]: But what we don't 
  want is we don't want to introduce any proprietary vendors as 
  cryptographic authorities in the system that automatically get a 
  vendor lock in um.
Daniel_Kahn_Gillmor_(dkg)_[ACLU]_[he_or_they]: You know I I I 
  chose this best viewed within an Explorer image here because 
  hopefully it resonates with the w3c um what a disaster that was 
  for the web when iie was the only um the only browser game in 
  town I worry that we're sliding in that direction with chrome as 
  well um I'm sure you guys have had that discussion here um but we 
  really don't want that to happen with a digital ID system um and 
  it's not just this only worked for people with iPhones but you 
  know a 2-party ecosystem is still not open um I think it's 
  important if we're talking about the user being in control that 
  it's not about the user deciding whether to submit to Google's 
  idea of what the user wants versus Apple's idea of what the user 
  wants.
Daniel_Kahn_Gillmor_(dkg)_[ACLU]_[he_or_they]: What we really 
  need is we need a system that permits the user to band together 
  with other users and create their own digital ID that will slot 
  into this ecosystem without any great hurdle.
Daniel_Kahn_Gillmor_(dkg)_[ACLU]_[he_or_they]: Um now most users 
  are not going to do that um but having those extra possibilities 
  those alternate ways of engaging with the system and actually 
  having it work um even if the majority of users end up going with 
  Google or Apple because that's the default um having an open 
  ecosystem puts pressure on Google and apple to actually respect 
  the desires of the users because the users can have an 
  opportunity to switch um if there are no no lock-ins it's very 
  easy to design an ecosystem like this that says the only possible 
  vendors are Google and Apple today because those are the folks 
  who create the handheld devices and if we just get them on board 
  all is good that's in scare quotes I know my video camera is off 
  um but I don't think that's sufficient um and I think we should 
  push back hard on any legislative requirement that it's willing 
  to accept uh a duopoly of middlemen I'm sure there may be people 
  on this call who work for Google and apple I appreciate the work 
  that you all do um and I appreciate uh the steps you've taken to 
  different your differentiate yourselves from the.
Daniel_Kahn_Gillmor_(dkg)_[ACLU]_[he_or_they]:  Privacy 
  perspective.
Daniel_Kahn_Gillmor_(dkg)_[ACLU]_[he_or_they]: But I still think 
  that the ecosystem is healthier if we have more parties capable 
  of being involved um without any major hurdles and I think that 
  legislative guidance should be clear.
Daniel_Kahn_Gillmor_(dkg)_[ACLU]_[he_or_they]: Um that A system 
  that only permits the major oligarchs to provide the tooling for 
  the users is a system that's ripe for abuse.
Daniel_Kahn_Gillmor_(dkg)_[ACLU]_[he_or_they]: Um and shouldn't 
  be acceptable legally.
Daniel_Kahn_Gillmor_(dkg)_[ACLU]_[he_or_they]: So this 1 going 
  back to the the 3-party model here um.
Daniel_Kahn_Gillmor_(dkg)_[ACLU]_[he_or_they]: A lot of the folks 
  who are proposing these systems are thinking about digital ID 
  systems from the perspective of being concerned about someone 
  faking a digital ID right the worst thing The Story Goes they 
  would happen to a digital ID system is if it could be used for 
  fraud if I could pretend that I am Manu for example um then maybe 
  I could do bad things in Minor's name and manner would get in 
  trouble.
Daniel_Kahn_Gillmor_(dkg)_[ACLU]_[he_or_they]: And so most of the 
  technical effort that's put in been put in place on these systems 
  is to ensure that the holder can't cheat.
<manu_sporny> You're far too good looking to pass as me, DKG. :P
Daniel_Kahn_Gillmor_(dkg)_[ACLU]_[he_or_they]: And 1 of the 
  problems with that frame is that it ignores the fact that the 
  holders themselves have significant interests that may be in 
  opposition to the verifiers in addition to in opposition to the 
  issuers right the no phone home argument really says we want to 
  push back against issuers getting some kind of uh unnecessary 
  control but I want to highlight with this with this slide here 
  that.
Daniel_Kahn_Gillmor_(dkg)_[ACLU]_[he_or_they]: How the verifiers 
  are held to account are really pretty critical if someone asks 
  you for your ID.
Daniel_Kahn_Gillmor_(dkg)_[ACLU]_[he_or_they]:  even if.
Daniel_Kahn_Gillmor_(dkg)_[ACLU]_[he_or_they]: If you're in a 
  situation where you expect your ID to be asked for you ought to 
  be able to find out who's asking for my ID the ought to be able 
  to know that you have some amount of control over the ID um 
  request situation and the verifier needs to be able to be 
  identified and held to account for their asks this is because we 
  expect um.
Daniel_Kahn_Gillmor_(dkg)_[ACLU]_[he_or_they]: Verifiers to be 
  abusive not every verifier but if you look at the way that the um 
  system uh you know any any of the digital systems have evolved 
  over the last 2 decades.
Daniel_Kahn_Gillmor_(dkg)_[ACLU]_[he_or_they]: You know I think 
  you'd have to be pretty naive to imagine that everyone who asks 
  for some ID is going to use it for entirely harmless purposes and 
  so what we need is we need specific concrete protocol you know 
  embedded in the protocol mechanisms to hold that that we can use 
  to hold the verifier to account.
Daniel_Kahn_Gillmor_(dkg)_[ACLU]_[he_or_they]:  if I.
Daniel_Kahn_Gillmor_(dkg)_[ACLU]_[he_or_they]: I get asked for an 
  ID and I can't tell who's asking for the ID something's gone 
  wrong there.
Daniel_Kahn_Gillmor_(dkg)_[ACLU]_[he_or_they]: And when we asked 
  legislators to think about how they set up digital ID systems we 
  need to ask them.
Daniel_Kahn_Gillmor_(dkg)_[ACLU]_[he_or_they]: To create um 
  accountability mechanisms for verifiers and that only works if 
  the protocols make it clear who the verifiers are and what 
  they're doing.
Daniel_Kahn_Gillmor_(dkg)_[ACLU]_[he_or_they]: Um so this is a 
  this is a uh something that I think many systems you know have 
  have sort of have bootstrapped in some sense at least for on the 
  web a lot of systems have bootstrapped on the same origin model 
  right well you know the browser knows which origin is asking for 
  the ID and therefore that's okay I encourage you in your process 
  of you know navigating the web yourself to note who's asking for 
  what IDs when um and to think about how that all fits in to this 
  bigger this bigger picture of verifier accountability um and I 
  don't actually know enough about uh verifiable credentials I'd 
  love to hear from any of y'all um if you have thoughts about 
  things that that um VC does well in terms of verifier 
  accountability or place you know gaps that where it could be 
  improved um but I I think not enough people who designed these 
  systems think about it from this perspective.
Daniel_Kahn_Gillmor_(dkg)_[ACLU]_[he_or_they]: Um I said I'd get 
  back to the revocation question and here's here's uh this is my 
  slide on thinking about revocation um for those of you who don't 
  know this picture this is a picture from the book The commissar 
  vanishes and it's an edited picture uh the picture used to so 
  that's a Stalin there and he was walking with.
Daniel_Kahn_Gillmor_(dkg)_[ACLU]_[he_or_they]: A comrade of his 
  and the comrade fell into disgrace and he was been erased from 
  the picture as it was been uh retouched and republished later.
Daniel_Kahn_Gillmor_(dkg)_[ACLU]_[he_or_they]: We don't want the 
  issuers to be able to reach into someone's wallet and pull out 
  their driver's license.
Daniel_Kahn_Gillmor_(dkg)_[ACLU]_[he_or_they]:  and we don't.
Daniel_Kahn_Gillmor_(dkg)_[ACLU]_[he_or_they]: Want the 
  equivalent thing to happen for any sort of digital ID now there 
  are situations where an ID needs to be revoked and we you know we 
  understand that uh but we have survived for a long time with ID 
  revocations.
Daniel_Kahn_Gillmor_(dkg)_[ACLU]_[he_or_they]: Not happening 
  instantaneously and we think that that is something that we can 
  survive with further.
Daniel_Kahn_Gillmor_(dkg)_[ACLU]_[he_or_they]: There's 2 main 
  risks with replications with with prompt and immediate 
  revocations.
Daniel_Kahn_Gillmor_(dkg)_[ACLU]_[he_or_they]: Immediate 
  revocations typically require um something like a phone home 
  mechanism.
Daniel_Kahn_Gillmor_(dkg)_[ACLU]_[he_or_they]: A phone home 
  mechanism as we said at the very beginning is is really something 
  that we don't think is should be on the table you shouldn't be 
  able to just um.
Daniel_Kahn_Gillmor_(dkg)_[ACLU]_[he_or_they]: The the central 
  issuer shouldn't be able to just know.
Daniel_Kahn_Gillmor_(dkg)_[ACLU]_[he_or_they]: Who is using their 
  ID with what verifier at any given time um so by by saying hey 
  you know immediate revocation is not the priority um.
Daniel_Kahn_Gillmor_(dkg)_[ACLU]_[he_or_they]: That's part of 
  that is a push back against this um.
Daniel_Kahn_Gillmor_(dkg)_[ACLU]_[he_or_they]: Against this uh 
  phone home mechanism the other reason though is that.
Daniel_Kahn_Gillmor_(dkg)_[ACLU]_[he_or_they]: The ability to 
  remove someone's identity is a very strong ability.
Daniel_Kahn_Gillmor_(dkg)_[ACLU]_[he_or_they]:  the more.
Daniel_Kahn_Gillmor_(dkg)_[ACLU]_[he_or_they]: That it's possible 
  for an agency to do that the bigger risk that agency has in terms 
  of in terms of exercising unchecked power right we don't know how 
  to do that in a um in a way that is responsible and we don't 
  think that it's a good idea to invest.
Daniel_Kahn_Gillmor_(dkg)_[ACLU]_[he_or_they]:  our agent.
Daniel_Kahn_Gillmor_(dkg)_[ACLU]_[he_or_they]: With with that 
  kind of power if someone applies for an idea they can't get it 
  they're typically channels they can go through to.
Daniel_Kahn_Gillmor_(dkg)_[ACLU]_[he_or_they]:  um to.
Daniel_Kahn_Gillmor_(dkg)_[ACLU]_[he_or_they]: Can test it um but 
  a prompt kill switch that would let uh person immediately become 
  an unperson seems like not a good idea.
Daniel_Kahn_Gillmor_(dkg)_[ACLU]_[he_or_they]: So as you think 
  about revocation in your systems.
Daniel_Kahn_Gillmor_(dkg)_[ACLU]_[he_or_they]: I recognized as 
  someone who has designed cryptographic authentication systems the 
  Temptation for wanting immediate revocation um I would encourage 
  you to push back on that requirement a little bit it's okay if 
  the verification takes a little bit of time and then there may be 
  some things like presentations about someone's age.
Daniel_Kahn_Gillmor_(dkg)_[ACLU]_[he_or_they]: Um that simply 
  don't make any sense to be revoked at all and it's okay to design 
  a system if it's focusing on that use case that doesn't have 
  verification I'm never going to become.
Daniel_Kahn_Gillmor_(dkg)_[ACLU]_[he_or_they]: And then in this 
  in this uh slide I've grouped together a set of things that I 
  think are not directly bound to how the protocol works but are 
  sort of meta protocol uh concerns and these may not be things 
  that you're capable of doing directly in your uh ccg work.
Daniel_Kahn_Gillmor_(dkg)_[ACLU]_[he_or_they]: But I do think 
  they should shape the way that you think about ccg work so that 
  we can you can think about how it would fit into a legislative 
  recommendation.
Daniel_Kahn_Gillmor_(dkg)_[ACLU]_[he_or_they]: Um the the first 
  bullet point here is we're asking for a reporting requirement so 
  before any system like this gets deployed we want it to be 
  publicly discussed and uh there to be a comment period and all of 
  that right we want we don't want any legislature to say put the 
  system in place and we'll just use whatever you come up with we 
  want there to be public review and discussion you should be used 
  to this by at the w3c by now and I hope that you'll agree this is 
  an important way to actually have a you know a system that you're 
  going to depend on socially.
Jay_Stanley(ACLU): And we've already uh seen that in Europe that 
  the early implementation plans for implementing some of the you 
  know ditch the European digital ID have fallen short of the 
  legislators um requirements for the Privacy protecting uh 
  features that it's supposed to contain um and it's only because 
  of the feedback and the and the fact that there is such a review 
  that those things can be fixed can easily see in a US state.
Jay_Stanley(ACLU): Uh legislature requiring a certain protocol 
  certain features um the implementer not addressing those properly 
  and it just sailing into um into issuance with um with nobody 
  able to do anything about it or complain or or have any effect 
  before it's rolled out.
Daniel_Kahn_Gillmor_(dkg)_[ACLU]_[he_or_they]: Um secondly out 
  this is again this is sort of outside of the um.
Daniel_Kahn_Gillmor_(dkg)_[ACLU]_[he_or_they]: Credentials but we 
  we think that people should have a right to continue to not use 
  digital credentials.
Daniel_Kahn_Gillmor_(dkg)_[ACLU]_[he_or_they]: Um for whatever 
  reason your design uh your your implementation may not line up 
  with everyone's um capacity values preferences whatever and we 
  think that making a system that depends explicitly on the digital 
  ID system is a bad idea um we need that opt out um frame in the 
  same way that we need the opt out frame in terms of the open 
  systems where you shouldn't have to submit to the you know 1 of 2 
  oligarchs you should be able to opt out of the digital ID system 
  entirely where possible um and so we we want to encourage 
  legislators to include a right to paper so to the extent that 
  you're designing a protocol that says well everyone will be using 
  this maybe think twice.
Daniel_Kahn_Gillmor_(dkg)_[ACLU]_[he_or_they]: About what the.
Daniel_Kahn_Gillmor_(dkg)_[ACLU]_[he_or_they]: Other options 
  might be um I realize that's incredibly difficult in an online 
  presentation scenario and I don't exactly know how to handle that 
  in online presentation scenario but at least think about cases 
  where a system like this might be rolled out for an in-person 
  scenario and you really want people to be able to go back to just 
  holding on to their driver's license therapy piece of paper and 
  having that work.
Daniel_Kahn_Gillmor_(dkg)_[ACLU]_[he_or_they]: If you can design 
  your system such that someone can get paper or plastic or 
  whatever credentials that they have in their on their person and 
  use it to present in an online way whether that's a a stapled 
  stack of tear off 1 used tickets that they type in or whatever 
  some of us may have used those kind of 1-time password 
  credentials uh 30 years ago um but if you can if you if your 
  system can support that right to paper in an online presentation 
  environment that's even better.
Daniel_Kahn_Gillmor_(dkg)_[ACLU]_[he_or_they]: You also support 
  restrictions on demands for ID.
Daniel_Kahn_Gillmor_(dkg)_[ACLU]_[he_or_they]:  we don't.
Daniel_Kahn_Gillmor_(dkg)_[ACLU]_[he_or_they]: Think that it 
  makes sense to roll out a government issue digital ID that just 
  anyone can ask for willingly um the technological developments 
  are such that this stuff it becomes easier not harder to present 
  them as time goes on and if everybody has 1 the temptation to ask 
  for it especially if it's easy to present it's going to be easy.
Daniel_Kahn_Gillmor_(dkg)_[ACLU]_[he_or_they]: It's going to be 
  the Temptation is going to be strong.
Daniel_Kahn_Gillmor_(dkg)_[ACLU]_[he_or_they]: Um and the result 
  will be a papers please scenario everywhere that you go.
Daniel_Kahn_Gillmor_(dkg)_[ACLU]_[he_or_they]: Right um and we 
  don't think again this goes back to that phone home question we 
  don't think that building those Central linkable databases um is 
  a good idea and so our legislative guidance asks specifically for 
  a restrictions on on when you can when you're allowed to ask for 
  ID and this ties back into the questions about how is the user 
  supposed to know when these restrictions are being violated what 
  can the protocol do.
Daniel_Kahn_Gillmor_(dkg)_[ACLU]_[he_or_they]: Court restriction 
  on when IDs can be asked for.
Daniel_Kahn_Gillmor_(dkg)_[ACLU]_[he_or_they]: If you haven't 
  thought about those questions in in detail if you haven't thought 
  about how could this system how could we make sure that this 
  system um.
Daniel_Kahn_Gillmor_(dkg)_[ACLU]_[he_or_they]: Makes it easy for 
  people to challenge an illegitimate demand for ID.
Daniel_Kahn_Gillmor_(dkg)_[ACLU]_[he_or_they]: Then I think maybe 
  that's worth um doing a little bit of thinking and research on.
Daniel_Kahn_Gillmor_(dkg)_[ACLU]_[he_or_they]: In addition to 
  restricting when you can ask for ID we want to be able to say we 
  want to that that you know when ID when information data is 
  generated by the system to the extent that it's not you know 
  completely anonymized and unlabel there will always be some 
  presentation opportunities for some data to be produced by the 
  system and held by various parties that are in Play We want there 
  to be restrictions on the data use now I recognize that once 
  someone has data you can't actually stop them from doing anything 
  with it that's just not how the universe really works um but we 
  can say that this is something they should not do and we can 
  create punishments or penalties for misusing the data and so 
  think about when you're building these systems or when you're 
  designing them how you would support these restrictions on data 
  use um for the data that is generated by these systems.
Daniel_Kahn_Gillmor_(dkg)_[ACLU]_[he_or_they]: Finally the 
  questions about you know what are the consequences of breaking 
  some of these violations you know if we designed the protocol 
  right there will be things that people simply can't do right I 
  mean if you actually have an unlined disclosure then we don't 
  need a regulation or enforcement to keep people from doing stuff 
  with that but there are other parts that that are going to that 
  we don't won't have a technical answer for and those need 
  enforcement.
Daniel_Kahn_Gillmor_(dkg)_[ACLU]_[he_or_they]: This goes back to 
  sort of my my question earlier about verifier accountability but 
  also issuer accountability you know what are the means that we 
  would have available in order to push back on the abuses um that 
  might come from a system like this so if the protocol can provide 
  any additional support for attempts at enforcement if it should 
  create logs it could be used in a lawsuit say a private right of 
  action lawsuit where I say hey this verifier seems to be 
  gathering more data about me than is allowed um I would like it 
  if my tooling were capable of identifying some situations like 
  that and alerting me to it um just the fact that there is 
  enforcement possibility some sort of teeth um that people could 
  use would I think discourage people from abusive misuse of these 
  systems.
Jay_Stanley(ACLU): I would just punctuate the point about 
  restrictions on demands for ID I think that is a really crucial 
  piece here and it's it's purely legislative not a technological 
  solution but any digital identity no matter how privacy 
  protective it is.
Jay_Stanley(ACLU): Opens up the possibility that it becomes a 
  super cookie um and and and that um we see demands from all kinds 
  of parties at every turn to prove your identity potentially in um 
  you know in ways that are not um you know minimum minimized that 
  that include your full identity um from every website you want to 
  visit because they want to they want to Market to you they want 
  to make sure you're over 13s they can Market to you they want to 
  do forensics in case you later or hack them they want to make 
  sure you haven't previously been kicked off the site um and you 
  know you go to cats.com and they're saying press here to send us 
  your fully DMV vetted cryptographically secure digital identity 
  that you won't be able to ever escape um so.
Jay_Stanley(ACLU):  uh I.
Jay_Stanley(ACLU): Just want to plug.
Jay_Stanley(ACLU): That's for us that's a really key piece of the 
  puzzle here.
Daniel_Kahn_Gillmor_(dkg)_[ACLU]_[he_or_they]: And so so I mean I 
  think the takeaway from from all of these recommendations to to 
  Yas protocol developers and designers um is to make these 
  recommendations possible or don't make the system right we want 
  to make sure that when these different parties get involved in 
  communicating with each other um about digital IDs that what we 
  aren't creating is this like overarching sort of surveillance 
  State um inescapable surveillance State because people are not 
  going to get multiple ideas it's very hard to to maintain 
  multiple identities and this context collapse.
Daniel_Kahn_Gillmor_(dkg)_[ACLU]_[he_or_they]:  um that's happen.
Daniel_Kahn_Gillmor_(dkg)_[ACLU]_[he_or_they]: You know 
  repeatedly is something that's really been harmful to people and 
  harmful to the way that our society is capable of evolving.
Daniel_Kahn_Gillmor_(dkg)_[ACLU]_[he_or_they]:  so we will.
Daniel_Kahn_Gillmor_(dkg)_[ACLU]_[he_or_they]: Want to ask as 
  protocol developers you know that you think about what kind of 
  legislative guidance and um we we're giving here and make sure 
  that your the protocols that you work on can meet some of these 
  goals um in fact we wanted to meet all of these goals right um 
  and if it doesn't meet these goals maybe these systems aren't 
  such a good idea.
Daniel_Kahn_Gillmor_(dkg)_[ACLU]_[he_or_they]: You know to the 
  extent that your building systems that meet these goals we would 
  love to be able to talk more specifically about them we'd love to 
  hear more from you about you know your prospective on on how we 
  meet these goals or if you think some of these goals are are 
  implausible we'd like to hear that too um but we really want to 
  make sure that that that you know this is the trade-off right the 
  society wants to jump into this because there's a lot of money 
  pushing on it.
Daniel_Kahn_Gillmor_(dkg)_[ACLU]_[he_or_they]: But it may.
Daniel_Kahn_Gillmor_(dkg)_[ACLU]_[he_or_they]: May not be a good 
  idea we've seen things that have a lot of money writing on them 
  turn out to not be such a great idea um anyway and so we want to 
  figure out how we can make these things a little bit safer.
Daniel_Kahn_Gillmor_(dkg)_[ACLU]_[he_or_they]:  um so.
Daniel_Kahn_Gillmor_(dkg)_[ACLU]_[he_or_they]: That as you're 
  building your systems you'll make these goals possible so that we 
  give something that the legislators can can tie their demands to.
Daniel_Kahn_Gillmor_(dkg)_[ACLU]_[he_or_they]: So I would love 
  we've got about 10 minutes left in the hour um I'd love to hear 
  questions or feedback now but also this is um our email addresses 
  you're welcome to mail me or J um anytime we we're we're both 
  interested in this deeply um.
Daniel_Kahn_Gillmor_(dkg)_[ACLU]_[he_or_they]: Yeah uh I'd love 
  to hear folks have questions or comments.
Harrison_Tang: Thank you Daniel thank you Jay Manu please.
<joe_andrieu> could we get the emails echoed here in chat?
Manu Sporny:  Uh yeah uh uh um Dan J this was a fantastic thank 
  you very much for the the presentation and um uh I I would say 
  that you know the the work that we're doing in the verifiable 
  credential working group at w3c is highly highly aligned with uh.
Manu Sporny:   I think.
<daniel_kahn_gillmor_(dkg)_[aclu]_[he_or_they]> dkg@aclu.org and 
  jstanley@aclu.org
<joe_andrieu> thanks!
Manu Sporny:  Every single 1 of the points that you have made 
  today um so much so that I think we can draw a direct line from 
  uh you know ACLU requirements or suggestions to technologies that 
  we have standardized or um uh are standardizing to achieve those 
  things so I really appreciate the amount of thought that um ACLU 
  has has put into this um there is a tremendous amount of 
  alignment at at you know w3c I think over over those 
  recommendations um I'll also note that you know 1 of the.
Manu Sporny:  Biggest threats right now um I think is uh that 
  there are a number of vendors out there that are really 
  stretching the truth around what some of these Technologies do or 
  don't do um in some cases you know we've been in meetings where 
  you're kind of like that is absolutely not true uh you know that 
  technology is a tracking technology uh and it is being suggested 
  by you know a big Tech vendors or you know people with state or 
  federal contracts that um it couldn't possibly be true because it 
  has been ratified by.
Manu Sporny:  You know Global standards body so I I think 1 of 
  the big dangers here is that the legislators are getting a lot of 
  misinformation from vendors that have an incentive to sell this 
  technology um uh into.
Manu Sporny:  Uh the state and federal governments um uh.
Manu Sporny:  Or not hearing other perspectives um so I I you 
  know when that ACLU paper came out I definitely took it and sent 
  it to all the legislators and you know State officials and 
  federal officials I could I could fine but the feedback was well 
  you know this is you know a small handful of of people um going 
  against what seems to be uh nist guidance and ISO guidance and 
  and things of that nature so I I think that's 1 of the biggest 
  biggest problems here is that um you know these legislators are 
  not uh they're still not hearing it or if they hear it they go 
  and they check with their vendors and their vendors are like no 
  there's no problem here to deploying ml right um.
Manu Sporny:  Uh the other thing I think that's also kind of a a 
  problem here is that um.
<tallted_//_ted_thibodeau_(he/him)_(openlinksw.com)> Seems like 
  more axes for the Rubric...
Manu Sporny:  Some of this technology like the the prices the 
  unlabel Privacy preserving stuff um that a number of us um are 
  working on so we've got Craig Bernstein here who's been working 
  on the BBS on linkability stuff and ITF um because it is not a 
  standard you know the argument from that some federal and some 
  State um uh uh officials are like well if the technology existed 
  we can deploy it into production but it's not ready yet right so 
  we are actively working on this technology but then we have big 
  vendors actively slowing down the standardization work so that we 
  can't get it done so that we can get it in the market so um we 
  we've run you know we're kind of rounding the rounding the bend 
  on that I think we've we're in way better shape today than we 
  were like 8 years ago but it's taking a long time again because.
Manu Sporny:   You know.
Manu Sporny:  ERS that are telling you things that are agencies.
Manu Sporny:  Wrong thing um.
<tallted_//_ted_thibodeau_(he/him)_(openlinksw.com)> Including 
  some revamping of the Rubric, such that it more clearly applies 
  to the VC arena as well as the DID arena.
Manu Sporny:  So I'll I'll stop there I I think you know 1 1 of 
  the 1 of the things I would like to see is you know closer 
  collaboration between ACLU and the and the w3c working groups to 
  draw a direct line from what ACLU is suggesting to its technical 
  feasibility I know we can't do anything from a legislation 
  perspective but that we can absolutely say look there there is a 
  technical solution to this in many cases it is Deployable or has 
  been deployed in production and you as legislators or decision 
  makers at the state and federal uh need to look into you know 
  what's what's happening there um so so I'm I'm wondering how we 
  do that kind of Engagement a kind of as an as an open question.
Daniel_Kahn_Gillmor_(dkg)_[ACLU]_[he_or_they]: Thanks man I just 
  wanted to flag a couple of things my experience has been that the 
  iso and nist guidance is typically not actually guidance it's 
  more like someone painted a map.
Daniel_Kahn_Gillmor_(dkg)_[ACLU]_[he_or_they]: And so it's very 
  easy for a vendor to say hey we fit on we're on the map.
Daniel_Kahn_Gillmor_(dkg)_[ACLU]_[he_or_they]:  and we're.
Daniel_Kahn_Gillmor_(dkg)_[ACLU]_[he_or_they]: What we're 
  advocating for here is there are parts of the map where you do 
  not want to go.
Daniel_Kahn_Gillmor_(dkg)_[ACLU]_[he_or_they]: Right I mean 
  niston ISO will lay out a standard and say you have option A and 
  option b and option C and option D and they'll be like where see 
  we're on the map and we're we're saying is options b c and d are 
  not acceptable.
Daniel_Kahn_Gillmor_(dkg)_[ACLU]_[he_or_they]: Like you know the 
  iso standard specifically has a phone home scenario outlined as 1 
  of the options for how you can build it we think that's a 
  terrible idea.
Daniel_Kahn_Gillmor_(dkg)_[ACLU]_[he_or_they]: Um and so you know 
  I think we need to think about how we message folks who are in 
  decision-making positions um to think to see you know hey you 
  know these maps are not statements of values and if you're just 
  saying we are on the map that's not enough.
Daniel_Kahn_Gillmor_(dkg)_[ACLU]_[he_or_they]: So Greg I see your 
  hand raised or I'm not sure what the queue is here sorry.
Harrison_Tang: Yeah great you're next.
Greg Bernstein:  Oh I I was um gonna bring up the fact that.
Greg Bernstein:  Phoning home and linkable.
Greg Bernstein:  Artifacts in a credential are kind of very 
  similar and so for yes there are uses where we do have to have 
  the identifiability to linkability but for so many where we 
  don't.
Greg Bernstein:  We really need those full cryptographic schemes 
  that can provide it and.
Greg Bernstein:  Exists they've been around for 20 years I you 
  know they've been proven we are pushing them to be standardized 
  and get extra features uh but they're not.
Greg Bernstein:  They're not you know they're not something new 
  fangled it's just.
Greg Bernstein:  We never had enough push to get them into some 
  situations they're already supported in some other places um so.
Greg Bernstein:  The phone home and linkability are are very 
  similar in any cryptographic artifacts or when I see.
<daniel_kahn_gillmor_(dkg)_[aclu]_[he_or_they]> i really 
  appreciate the standardization work.  i do that myself in other 
  contexts, and i'm aware of how much ongoing work is needed to 
  make that happen.
Greg Bernstein:  Some of these schemes and I see a deterministic 
  signature it's like okay that's allows correlation and once you 
  have that and you have some collusion between the verifier and 
  the issuer then you're being tracked all over right they have 
  you.
Greg Bernstein:  We can do better and there's post-quantum stuff 
  coming to help so they can't there's no reason to use these 
  excuses that 1 we can't do it now and we can't do it in the 
  future because we do have the technology and if you have 
  questions there's a you know we've been working with the folks in 
  Europe the cryptographers there who kind of through uh cold water 
  on the Udi stuff because of that and their feedback saying hey 
  know we can do this better so.
<daniel_kahn_gillmor_(dkg)_[aclu]_[he_or_they]> it's also OK to 
  say "if you can't do it now, then we should wait on rolling these 
  things out".  getting locked into suboptimal things isn't a great 
  move.
Greg Bernstein:  Hot but as you said not every case calls for it 
  right you know you need linkability but a lot of cases you do 
  not.
Greg Bernstein:  Happy to help any place anytime you want have a 
  question.
Harrison_Tang: Cool by the way um we only have uh we we'll go 
  about 3 minutes over and we have 2 more questions so Brandy 
  please.
<daniel_kahn_gillmor_(dkg)_[aclu]_[he_or_they]> i can stick 
  around afterward if folks want to talk more
Daniel_Kahn_Gillmor_(dkg)_[ACLU]_[he_or_they]: That's a great 
  question um.
Daniel_Kahn_Gillmor_(dkg)_[ACLU]_[he_or_they]: I I don't know 
  that A legislature can say simply it must be an open system um 
  but I think they can put some constraints on the agencies that 
  would run the system.
Daniel_Kahn_Gillmor_(dkg)_[ACLU]_[he_or_they]: Say for example 
  you know um.
Daniel_Kahn_Gillmor_(dkg)_[ACLU]_[he_or_they]: Uh you must design 
  a system that anyone can Implement and participate in.
Daniel_Kahn_Gillmor_(dkg)_[ACLU]_[he_or_they]: Like that um.
<manu_sporny> Great stuff DKG and Jay -- thank you for taking the 
  time to share the ACLU work, really appreciate it!
Daniel_Kahn_Gillmor_(dkg)_[ACLU]_[he_or_they]: And there should 
  be there needs to be a hook I don't know exactly how you frame it 
  this way but there needs to be a hook where someone can say to 
  say.
Daniel_Kahn_Gillmor_(dkg)_[ACLU]_[he_or_they]: Issuing agency I 
  you know I've got a system that needs to do provisioning and 
  you're and you're not letting me write some there needs to be a 
  provision that that would be an obvious violation of that.
Daniel_Kahn_Gillmor_(dkg)_[ACLU]_[he_or_they]: You're not letting 
  me provision my device.
Daniel_Kahn_Gillmor_(dkg)_[ACLU]_[he_or_they]: Even though I 
  should be able to like I made my device myself why can't I 
  provision it or in talking to verifiers hey I'm trying to 
  interact with verifiers J I don't know if you have ideas about 
  how we put that in terms of legislative language.
Jay_Stanley(ACLU): Well the language we use in the paper is that 
  um you know a digital.
Jay_Stanley(ACLU): Digital ID shall adhere to open standards for 
  wallets and the processes of provisioning and presentation.
Jay_Stanley(ACLU): And those shall not be restricted by patents 
  or other IP um and as a practical matter allow any compliant 
  entity to create a wallet in which holders May store their 
  digital driver's licenses and then an individual should have a 
  right to carry a digital ID in any wallet of their choice that 
  complies with widely accepted standards for security um and so 
  that's as far as we go um.
Jay_Stanley(ACLU): Uh in the hope that that would be enough to 
  create room for um wallet creators besides the duopoly.
Harrison_Tang: All right last question Phil.
Robert Long:  Thank you and great presentation very very 
  thoughtful um this is a just a quick.
Robert Long:  Of the community I think 1 of the challenges that 
  we face is that there is an awful lot of tracking going on 
  there's obviously Arguments for the various vendors and such 
  associated with wanting to see how there is credentials are used 
  and in what context of and usually in the in the context of how 
  can we improve them make them better and more useful Etc but that 
  very process is the challenge of linkability and unlink and um 
  and so the question that is out there I think we have an address 
  carefully is how do you scale consent so that individuals have 
  the right to not be tracked and yet if they wish to allow their 
  data to be seen for a particular instance for a particular 
  purpose it can be done so in a way that the various people that 
  claim to need that data for their analysis and their prediction 
  models and things don't simply lose it um and that's 1 of the big 
  fears that people have in the current environment so that's my my 
  my qu the request of the community thanks.
Daniel_Kahn_Gillmor_(dkg)_[ACLU]_[he_or_they]: Phil that's really 
  interesting it sounds to me like you're talking about telemetry.
Daniel_Kahn_Gillmor_(dkg)_[ACLU]_[he_or_they]: Measurements as a 
  as a driver for non a driver for relink ability.
Robert Long:  Exactly thank you.
Daniel_Kahn_Gillmor_(dkg)_[ACLU]_[he_or_they]: Go ahead J.
<dmitri_zagidulin> +1, Telemetry is really tricky for our 
  community
<phillip_long> It is and I don't know if it can be done. But it 
  feels unexplored in our community for W3C VC exchanges.
Jay_Stanley(ACLU): I mean again this gets back to that key 
  legislative requirement you know if there has to be room which 
  their does for a person to you know actually identify themselves 
  fully um and you just leave it to the open ecosystem then people 
  in No Matter What technological ability you have to um limit the 
  data that you share to you know um to authentication set of 
  identification or what have you in the real world bunch of 
  entities have a lot of um you know external power to force you to 
  fully identify yourself and to share all the data even if it's 
  not necessarily for the transaction and and and that people will 
  be subject to that power and um so the Privacy protections even 
  if they are in these IDs will go follow because nobody has the 
  choice to use them um and I I guess I see this as like if you 
  look at the history of encryption there was always a arms race 
  between those who encrypted and those who broke encryption 
  throughout all of history that arms race was sort of ended with 
  um you know uh with with.
Jay_Stanley(ACLU):  with advanced.
<daniel_kahn_gillmor_(dkg)_[aclu]_[he_or_they]> i'm generally 
  pretty skeptical about the value of telemetry in the first place, 
  but i know i'm in the minority on that â˜¹
Jay_Stanley(ACLU): And here there's been an arms race between 
  those who want to track people and those who who don't want to be 
  tracked are arms race going back you know through the advertising 
  ecosystems of the past decades and and and in the 20th century um 
  and so forth and in a similar way a digital identity that is 
  cryptographically secured has the potential to sort of end that 
  arms race decisively in favor of those who want to track um and 
  that is the um the big threat here and and why it's so crucial 
  that we don't uh end up stuck in a sub-optimal uh identity 
  standard as threatens to be become the reality.
Harrison_Tang: Cool thank you thank you Jay thank you Daniel of 
  great presentation and great discussion.
<phillip_long> I'm not supportive of telemetry as the only 
  approach to follow. But I'm not informed enough about 
  alternatives
Harrison_Tang: All right uh so that if you have further questions 
  uh feel free to just reach out to uh Jay and Daniel directly 
  again thanks thank you guys uh for taking the time to hop on here 
  and a great discussion and the conversation so this concludes 
  today's ccg meeting.
Harrison_Tang: We'll see you next week.
<przemek_praszczalek_(ma)> thank you!
Daniel_Kahn_Gillmor_(dkg)_[ACLU]_[he_or_they]: Thanks everyone 
  for joining and for the comments and and uh we'd love to hear 
  your feedback.
Jay_Stanley(ACLU): Yes definitely thank you so much.
