[Tue 11:04:55] <m4nu>	Agenda: http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-credentials/2014Sep/0000.html
[Tue 11:04:56] <dlongley>	scribe: dlongley
[Tue 11:05:16] <dlongley>	manu describes today's agenda.
[Tue 11:05:32] <dlongley>	m4nu: chris if you could give us a quick rundown of the JSON-LD discussions happening at Badge Alliance at some point during the call, that would be great.
[Tue 11:05:53] <dlongley>	m4nu: any other changes to the Agenda?
[Tue 11:05:54] <dlongley>	No changes requested.
[Tue 11:06:13] <m4nu>	Topic: Introduction of new Members
[Tue 11:06:22] *	cmcavoy (~cmcavoy@207.58.203.50) has joined #credentials
[Tue 11:06:36] <dlongley>	Evgeny: I'm from Yandex, largest search engine in Russia along with one of their largest e-commerce platform providers. I'm from their payments and identity team there. I have been participating in Web Payments Community Group for a while now and look forward to participating in the Credentials Community Group as well.
[Tue 11:07:09] <m4nu>	Topic: Quick IGF 2014 Review
[Tue 11:07:17] <m4nu>	We ran a workshop on credentials and payments at this year's IGF: https://igf2014.sched.org/event/781846f97d253b11129ee88f4dd176ff
[Tue 11:08:09] <dlongley>	m4nu: last week we met in Istanbul, Turkey with th global community, at IGF put on by UN, the point is to get policy makers, legal teams, govt officials, technologies together under the same roof to discuss issues, human rights issues, pervasive monitoring, getting next 3 billion people connected to the Web, mainly from a policy/framework standpoint not from technology.
[Tue 11:08:22] *	mediaprophet (~mediaprop@110-174-83-219.static.tpgi.com.au) has joined #credentials
[Tue 11:08:49] <dlongley>	m4nu: Mary bold, Pindar wong, and I  held a workshop along with jeremy malcom from Electronic Frontier Foundation Louise Bennett from BCS, and Norbert Bollow from Civil Society held a workshop there to get international community to chime in on the technology we're creating here specifically related to payment but also to get credentials integrated into the core of the Web.
[Tue 11:08:58] <m4nu>	voip: 8151 is Mary
[Tue 11:08:59] <voip-cr>	Mary is now associated with IAX2/diamondcard-8151.
[Tue 11:10:32] <dlongley>	m4nu: i think it went really really well, we were doing something pretty experimental, typically you have a group of 5-6 panelists talk for 60 minutes then 3 or so questions and audience experts don't get to participate etc. We changed things up to minimize the panelist talking and the rest of the time was getting audience involved to get feedback, find out what they thought about the credentialing work and what we've been doing in the payments group for the past couple of years as well as things like the badge alliance work and things in general for the Web. We were concerned that we wouldn't get engagement from the audience but that wasn't a problem at all, the audience really engaged, had great input for 90 minutes, etc.
[Tue 11:10:50] <dlongley>	m4nu: questions about how govts use creds tech, how this affects pervasive monitoring, etc
[Tue 11:11:04] <dlongley>	m4nu: almost everyone in the room said they wanted to be involved in the work we're doing here
[Tue 11:11:09] <dlongley>	m4nu: so a really great outcome.
[Tue 11:11:15] <m4nu>	Even better, the entire session was video recorded and is now up on YouTube: IGF Payment, Privacy, Policing Paradox workshop video: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=m8cIYzy5MIA
[Tue 11:11:48] <dlongley>	m4nu: 1hr 15min long it's really interesting -- will bring you up to speed on how everything we're working on is meant to work
[Tue 11:11:58] <dlongley>	m4nu: there's an after review/workshop report we're putting together now
[Tue 11:12:05] <dlongley>	m4nu: we'll feed that input into the W3C Technical Plenary
[Tue 11:12:24] <dlongley>	m4nu: lots of people care about this around the world, we think W3C should create an official standards track tech group to take this work on.
[Tue 11:12:28] <dlongley>	m4nu: mary any additions?
[Tue 11:14:02] <dlongley>	mary: there were more than 40 people in the room, they were active. Manu and Pindar they had a very inventive presentation style. They said we weren't going to do talking heads at a panel, and they got people understanding payments, and i don't think anyone in that room felt that it was being dumbed down for them. They appreciated the steps being taken, imagining the information moving across the web from browser to website, etc. I don't think anyone took it as being super pedantic, and they took it as a good live action explanation. I think that helped make the audience engaged and the first question came in at like 10 minutes or something, it was lively presentation, questions ranged from technical down to tell me where the money is.
[Tue 11:14:11] <dlongley>	mary: i think it did its job and people will be coming back to learn more.
[Tue 11:14:18] <dlongley>	m4nu: any questions about IGF or what we'll do to follow up?
[Tue 11:14:24] <dlongley>	m4nu: or general questions about why we did it in the first place?
[Tue 11:14:47] <dlongley>	tim: do you have any strategy in place to maintain contacts?
[Tue 11:15:13] <dlongley>	m4nu: we have a list of email addresses, we'll be sending them information about how to join the creds CG and how to participate in the work and we told them we'll give them quarterly updates on the work in this group
[Tue 11:15:25] <dlongley>	m4nu: same strategy we've been following  with the Web Payments CG
[Tue 11:15:40] <dlongley>	m4nu: we send out every quarter things they might be interested in, for example, votes that they might want to participate in
[Tue 11:15:52] <dlongley>	m4nu: so invitations to join the group and information about what's going on will be going out in email
[Tue 11:16:16] <m4nu>	voip: 2912 is Tim
[Tue 11:16:16] <voip-cr>	Tim is now associated with IAX2/diamondcard-2912.
[Tue 11:16:35] <dlongley>	tim: i'm finding extraordinary interest in the education sector, for creds, some of that interest may come from those that are not technically savvy but not participating in the group.
[Tue 11:16:45] <dlongley>	tim: it's really encouraging to get the feedback
[Tue 11:17:19] <dlongley>	m4nu: we have a fairly broad group of interest here, people interested in govt ID, educational creds, finance and know your customer info, trying to pull all those people into the same conversation is always going to be a challenge
[Tue 11:17:27] <dlongley>	m4nu: anyone with ideas about how to engage in all of these groups would be welcome
[Tue 11:17:33] <dlongley>	m4nu: anything else on IGF before we move forward?
[Tue 11:17:44] <dlongley>	bailey: the video you're talking about is also the one on youtube?
[Tue 11:17:45] <dlongley>	m4nu: yes
[Tue 11:18:12] <dlongley>	m4nu: unfortunately they didn't start recording until 10 minutes in, so we missed some intros but we actually prerecorded those so you don't miss anything if you watch this first: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OSCIicSi1ks&list=PLmwV_GNAvYmA4Qtssit6_U5AgLGYodxtI
[Tue 11:18:24] <dlongley>	m4nu: anything else?
[Tue 11:18:25] <m4nu>	Topic: Badge Alliance and JSON-LD Discussion
[Tue 11:18:58] <dlongley>	m4nu: last week the badge alliance had a discussion about the use of JSON-LD for the open badges work. Chris could you give us a quick rundown on that discussion and where you think the BA community is on the use of JSON-LD?
[Tue 11:19:01] <cmcavoy>	Notes for BA meeting on JSON-LD in the standard http://etherpad.badgealliance.org/ba-standard-sept2
[Tue 11:20:02] <dlongley>	cmcavoy: to give background, i think probably everyone on the call knows about the BA, but the open badges project is targeted at mostly education, we incubated at Mozilla, we are working on a standard for verifying badges and sending them around, etc.
[Tue 11:20:53] <m4nu>	voip: connections?
[Tue 11:21:10] <dlongley>	cmcavoy: the community is pretty vibrant, lots of people working with the open badges standards, BA was born/run out of Mozilla. We have groups working on different aspects of badging, the group i chair is continuing to work on the issuing badges standard. Manu and Accreditrust have been involved for a long time and we've spent a lot of time with Manu more recently talking about adding JSON-LD to the specification to make it more robust and flexible and give us options for things like digital signatures.
[Tue 11:21:29] <dlongley>	cmcavoy: and to enable the idea of adding extensions to the spec, like adding location or domain-specific things, JSON-LD has that ability
[Tue 11:23:11] <dlongley>	cmcavoy: so that brought us to it (JSON-LD) initially, the last couple of weeks we've been discussing it in the standards working group and other groups inside the alliance are sold on JSON-LD. Where we're concerned, like Tim's point, is that we have an education focused community and in a lot of cases they aren't technical, and some of the process we have today even confuses some in the community, so adding complexity is concerning, a lot of the discussion we had in the last week is about that. We've been selling the idea of using JSON-LD and back filling with tools and how to use it, etc.
[Tue 11:23:39] <dlongley>	cmcavoy: i feel like we have a good tentative plan, it won't be instantaneous it will be a process to move the community over to using JSON-LD to describe badges
[Tue 11:24:24] <dlongley>	m4nu: is there anything we can do, i apologize that i haven't been able to join more in that discussion, but hopefully we'll have some breathing room over the next month, is there anything we can focus on to help you sell the technology within the BA, would it help to mark up a badge, or would it help to link to the videos or do some kind of tutorial, if we could only do one thing what should that thing be to help you sell this internally?
[Tue 11:25:10] <dlongley>	cmcavoy: it's actually not selling it internally at this point, it's the broader community, and i think that will just take time, we need resources so i'll take you up on that, for some of the discussions we're starting on the mailing list, etc. We need to target a few issuers of badges to get them to adopt the new standard that hasn't been written/formalized yet
[Tue 11:25:53] <dlongley>	cmcavoy: we have some members in the community that i'd like to start working with to get them to experiment with JSON-LD because the move to JSON-LD will open up the idea of endorsement of badges and extensions. That could be the killer app that gets people to understand where we're headed with this spec/standard.
[Tue 11:26:14] <dlongley>	cmcavoy: if there's one thing you could do it would be if you could be available to be the go-to hand-holding expert on the standard and help a few key players get over any technical hurdles
[Tue 11:26:22] <dlongley>	cmcavoy: and so far you've been doing that so we're in good shape
[Tue 11:26:53] <dlongley>	m4nu: so one point here is that Dave Longley is here on the call one of the creators of JSON-LD and Dave Lehn is here as well and they know as much or more than I do about JSON-LD so you can talk to them as well
[Tue 11:27:30] <dlongley>	m4nu: we could do a call to get any the concerns you've got worked out and we could try and get the questions you have worked out in 15-30 minutes
[Tue 11:27:35] <dlongley>	cmcavoy: i appreciate it, thank you
[Tue 11:28:08] <dlongley>	m4nu: is there a timeline you're thinking or are you just thinking it will take a couple of months and you'll do the best we can, etc. blog posts responding to questions, etc.
[Tue 11:28:37] <dlongley>	cmcavoy: yeah the latter but i do think we need more of a plan ... put khaki pants on it, get it shipped.
[Tue 11:29:07] <dlongley>	tim: i'm looking at an application trying to promote physical activity if there's something that would be mutually beneficial that would be great
[Tue 11:29:19] <m4nu>	Topic: Charter Vote Status
[Tue 11:29:30] <m4nu>	Here's the current charter proposal: http://www.w3.org/community/credentials/charter/
[Tue 11:29:32] <dlongley>	m4nu: we have a charter that's been voted on currently.
[Tue 11:30:50] <dlongley>	m4nu: tim, you had mentioned on the mailing list a number of changes you'd like to see in the charter, we had a quick discussion offline about it, they are certainly things we should consider and I personally agree with but we are mid-vote and we don't want to invalid the voting process and it would take another month to make the changes and get everyone to read it and hold another vote and given our time crunch for having something in time for W3C TPAC, I feel that we should postpone the changes until we have /a/ optional charter.
[Tue 11:31:06] <dlongley>	m4nu: i think we should propose tim's changes in parallel with everything else we're doing later
[Tue 11:31:13] <dlongley>	m4nu: and we can start voting on use cases and things of that nature
[Tue 11:31:17] <dlongley>	m4nu: tim, thoughts?
[Tue 11:31:33] <m4nu>	Vote link is here: http://doodle.com/cdcnge9qzwfhbamn
[Tue 11:31:38] <dlongley>	tim: I'm not familiar with w3c process and i can appreciate some of the technical things you're talking about.
[Tue 11:31:59] <dlongley>	m4nu: typically people vote right away ... and then most vote within 24 hours of the vote closing
[Tue 11:32:19] <dlongley>	m4nu: i'll send a ping out to the mailing list to remind people to vote before this Friday.
[Tue 11:32:22] <dlongley>	m4nu: when the vote closes at the end of this Friday.
[Tue 11:32:35] <dlongley>	m4nu: any other questions about Tim's suggested modifications?
[Tue 11:32:40] <dlongley>	No other questions raised.
[Tue 11:32:50] <dlongley>	cmcavoy: is there a link to the proposed changes?
[Tue 11:32:57] <mediaprophet>	https://docs.google.com/document/d/1FD6V_GcU2lWOr1fqLa0WtFgqjdNXVyOzZIQnqpfXiCw/edit#
[Tue 11:33:20] <dlongley>	tim: i didn't edit the one online, i just grabbed it and put into google and posted the link to the list
[Tue 11:33:41] <dlongley>	m4nu: could you summarize the changes really quickly?
[Tue 11:34:31] <mediaprophet>	http://www.w3.org/community/odrl/
[Tue 11:34:50] <dlongley>	tim: the first bit is about  a technology instrument (aka contract) that verifies something, privacy and security and whether it can be entirely secure, data security is also a concern, with respect to the ODRL community i put that in there as well. So I share this credential for the purpose of you sending me a product, and nothing else. How do I enforce that my data isn't going to be misused.
[Tue 11:35:48] <dlongley>	tim: as I added WebID as a dependency or liaison, WebID has a vibrant community associated through FOAF with support through persona, although the concept of persona and creds are very separate they both know about each other - at least that was something that was worth involving them in the group, from what i'm aware Manu has actually started that conversation.
[Tue 11:36:32] <dlongley>	m4nu: so the ability for having your data taken from you and sold when you didn't mean it to be sold -  so having a way to express that this credential is only for some specific purpose and can't be used for another reason
[Tue 11:37:11] <dlongley>	tim: I thought this might provide some additional safeguards around it, so the fact that it's a digital instrument so like a contact, the signature is a legal instrument that's one of the technology things that we should look at.
[Tue 11:37:22] <dlongley>	tim: any comments or feedback?
[Tue 11:37:50] <dlongley>	m4nu: personally, I think it's a good idea, (personal not company position) the ODRL community has been working on this mechanism to specify rights for when you transmit data.
[Tue 11:38:12] <dlongley>	m4nu: they've been working on that problem for quite a while and we should be able to reuse what they've developed over the last 3-4 years, the problem is no one has done a technical implementation to make sure it works
[Tue 11:38:41] <dlongley>	m4nu: from what i understand i don't think that BA or the IC stuff has yet discussed a way to say you can only use this information for these purposes
[Tue 11:38:50] <dlongley>	m4nu: it's important to be able to express what your rights should be
[Tue 11:39:37] <m4nu>	Topic: Use Case Review
[Tue 11:39:44] <m4nu>	https://www.w3.org/community/webpayments/wiki/UseCases#Identity
[Tue 11:40:24] <dlongley>	m4nu: the web payments community group is entirely dependent on the output of this group as far as credentials are concerned, and the hope is that this group will take these use cases from the that group very seriously
[Tue 11:41:07] <mediaprophet>	+1
[Tue 11:41:08] <dlongley>	m4nu: we're going to read through these, not really pause to discuss, but then we'll go back and talk about the ones that are of concern to those in this group
[Tue 11:41:15] <dlongley>	+1
[Tue 11:41:21] <dlongley>	People on the call seem to be okay with this approach.
[Tue 11:41:56] <dlongley>	m4nu: we have a glossary above that will have to change because it was pretty specific to the web payments group
[Tue 11:42:01] <dlongley>	m4nu: and we'll have to modify that slightly. Ok, here we go...
[Tue 11:42:06] *	dlongley thanks
[Tue 11:42:10] <m4nu>	Use Case: Store basic credentials and payment provider information on the Web in a way that is easy to share with various payees/merchants given authorization by the owner (payee) of the credential, and that is easy to synchronize between devices.
[Tue 11:42:55] <dlongley>	m4nu: you should be able to store a piece of information and transmit it to who you want and that should only happen when you authorize it
[Tue 11:43:03] <dlongley>	tim: what would the authorizer be called
[Tue 11:43:35] <dlongley>	tim: it would be an educational institution? or would it be a govt department for a passport ... maybe a payment provider?
[Tue 11:43:53] <dlongley>	m4nu: we would strike 'and payment provider' and replace it with examples like educational provider, gov't passport, etc
[Tue 11:43:50] <m4nu>	Use Case: Steve (buyer) visits a website (merchant) and authorizes the transmission of one or more credentials (such as proof-of-age, shipping address, etc.) previously stored with a credential storage service to the website to enable access or fulfillment of a transaction.
[Tue 11:45:20] <dlongley>	m4nu: this has to do with someone providing a credential to a website to let them get through a gate on the website to let them do something, and here the website can't just trust the person they need to trust a 3rd party, for example, if someone needs to shut down a nuclear reactor remotely you'd have to provide a number of high stakes credentials .... that's pretty extreme example and one we should avoid in the future
[Tue 11:46:02] <m4nu>	dlongley: alternative example, a system administrator has to provide a credential to access an administrative portion of a website.
[Tue 11:46:07] <dlongley>	tim: perhaps just an example would be to provide a credential to edit a website
[Tue 11:46:18] <m4nu>	Use Case: Given the opt-in permission of the participants (payer, payee, buyer, merchant) of a transaction, the transaction metadata can be used to discover additional attributes associated with those participants. For example, given the buyer's authorization, a merchant could query the identity URL for the buyer contained in a digital receipt and obtain an up-to-date email address.
[Tue 11:46:22] <mediaprophet>	hereâ€™s a quick example: (not quite working, but press edit) http://mediaprophet.github.io/HTML5RWW-testing/index.html
[Tue 11:47:51] <dlongley>	m4nu: this is about saying: once you've given a credential to someone, can they do further discovery of other credentials given your permission
[Tue 11:47:56] <m4nu>	Use Case: Digitally verifiable credentials such that a merchant and payment processor involved in a transaction can prove that they have performed the proper due diligence when identifying the payer and the payee (KYC).
[Tue 11:48:45] <mediaprophet>	ie: http://www.finra.org/Industry/Issues/AML/
[Tue 11:48:53] <dlongley>	m4nu: this is important because of regulations in the financial industry and some require the banks to prove that they know who their customers are, to prevent money laundering and for anti-terrorism initiatives, etc.
[Tue 11:49:16] <mediaprophet>	or http://www.isignthis.com/
[Tue 11:49:38] <dlongley>	mark: can we go back one step to the permission to perform further discovery, at some point in time we'll need to be able to revoke that permission
[Tue 11:49:46] <dlongley>	m4nu: you're right and we don't have that in the use case right now and we should clarify that
[Tue 11:50:01] <dlongley>	m4nu: we should have a discussion on that as we've put a lot of thought into that in the last couple of years
[Tue 11:50:06] <m4nu>	Use Case: A payer executes a transaction without revealing secrets that are not vital to the transaction (e.g. identity, passwords, PINs or other information that the merchant does not need to know).
[Tue 11:51:10] <dlongley>	m4nu: this use case is basically about making sure that this credentialing mechanism doesn't expose extra information that you don't have to, if someone needs to prove you have a gov't issued passport, there should be a credential that can indicate you *have* a gov't issued passport that doesn't have to hand over all the information on it
[Tue 11:51:33] <dlongley>	m4nu: this is the ability to be able to send only the minimum amount of information that is needed
[Tue 11:51:52] <dlongley>	m4nu: if you want to order a bottle of wine on the web all you need to do is be able to prove that you're above the required age limit for your country
[Tue 11:52:00] <dlongley>	m4nu: they dont need to know your exact age or birthdate, etc.
[Tue 11:52:06] <dlongley>	m4nu: and you don't need to have your identity compromised
[Tue 11:52:25] <cmcavoy>	(have to drop early, thanks everyone)
[Tue 11:52:28] <dlongley>	tim: GPS -- the question is about whether or not we're supporting the capacity to lower the resolution of the data you're sharing.
[Tue 11:52:32] <voip-cr>	chris (SIP/172.16.6.236-00000015) has left the conference.
[Tue 11:52:44] *	cmcavoy has quit (Quit: cmcavoy)
[Tue 11:53:01] <dlongley>	tim: for example it currently gives point data on mobile phones, you can figure out exactly where the person is standing, whereas some services can translate point data to states, countries, etc., can we lower the resolution?
[Tue 11:53:20] <dlongley>	m4nu: i think this is that use case, it's about lowering the resolution to the minimum necessary to pass whatever the merchant or receiver needs to verify about you
[Tue 11:54:12] <dlongley>	m4nu: we don't have any use cases or things of that nature about that sort of tracking, but we're not talking about APIs for websites to access GPS stuff, etc. So the question back to you is, specifically, which one are you concerned with addressing? The pervasive monitoring and tracking of someone's location or the more general problem of lowering resolution to min required?
[Tue 11:55:34] <dlongley>	tim: facebook messenger can create authentication with that login and there are prefereneces that go with that handshake. Credentialling, the ODRL may be the other side of it, so i think that some of those things are in scope. I'm not sure, it also comes to the point of ... is this scope within the tech and spec process and to look if someone is not abiding by ... is it some sort of contact,... if you have a cred, and find out someone was using that credential in a way that isn't what you authorized how is that defended or rescinded
[Tue 11:56:46] <dlongley>	m4nu: once you give someone a piece of data you can't get it back so we have to deal with that -- so is there some way we can bring contract law into that, it's like a reverse shrinkwrap license, by accepting this data you agree to these privacy settings i've attached to it, so if you're going to use the data you have to comply with these ... we don't have a use case for this right now and that would be great if you wrote some up
[Tue 11:56:52] <dlongley>	tim: do we have any use cases around reputation?
[Tue 11:56:56] <dlongley>	m4nu: not yet
[Tue 11:57:19] <dlongley>	tim: can users identify reputation of one from another (credential issuer)?
[Tue 11:58:01] <dlongley>	m4nu: I do see there being a vocabulary for helping with that, we're looking at this as letting the market decide trust, if for whatever reason company X shouldn't be trusted then people with signatures from that company will start getting rejected in the market
[Tue 11:58:18] <dlongley>	m4nu: even if that argument exists that doesn't mean there shouldn't be a standard vocab everyone uses for that, that's what we can standardize here.
[Tue 11:58:30] <dlongley>	tim: If you can get the password to their email address you can reset all their passwords
[Tue 11:59:41] <dlongley>	tim: a state-based bank, a passport-provider, there are high stakes creds and other creds. I guess that makes some sense. In AUstralia, in order to get a bank account, you need a certain number of "points", you need a birth certificate which is worth a certain number of points, a healthcare card which adds more points. There must be a digital equivalent of this, ranking of creds.
[Tue 11:59:48] <dlongley>	m4nu: yeah, please send the use cases to the mailing list
[Tue 12:00:06] <dlongley>	m4nu: we're at the top of the hour, we have around six use cases left, we'll cover that on the call tomorrow.
[Tue 12:00:17] <dlongley>	m4nu: any closing thoughts/or announcements before call next week?
[Tue 12:00:21] <dlongley>	None
[Tue 12:00:23] <dlongley>	m4nu: thanks everyone
[Tue 12:00:23] <dlongley>	bill: thanks
[Tue 12:00:23] <dlongley>	dlehn: bye
[Tue 12:00:28] <voip-cr>	Mark (IAX2/diamondcard-4048) has left the conference.
[Tue 12:00:29] <voip-cr>	Bill (IAX2/diamondcard-4526) has left the conference.
[Tue 12:00:29] <voip-cr>	Tim (IAX2/diamondcard-2912) has left the conference.
[Tue 12:00:30] <voip-cr>	Evgeny (SIP/sip2sip.info-00000013) has left the conference.
[Tue 12:00:30] <voip-cr>	Manu Sporny (SIP/6000-00000010) has left the conference.
[Tue 12:00:30] <voip-cr>	Dave Longley (SIP/6002-00000016) has left the conference.
[Tue 12:00:31] <voip-cr>	Mary (IAX2/diamondcard-8151) has left the conference.
[Tue 12:00:32] <voip-cr>	Dave Lehn (SIP/6003-00000012) has left the conference.
