Thanks to Manu Sporny for scribing this week! The minutes
for this week's Credentials CG telecon are now available:

https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/2021-04-27 

Full text of the discussion follows for W3C archival purposes.
Audio from the meeting is available as well (link provided below).

----------------------------------------------------------------
Credentials CG Telecon Minutes for 2021-04-27

Agenda:
  undefined
Topics:
  1. Introductions / Reintroductions
  2. Announcements and Reminders
  3. Action Items
  4. Traceability API
Organizer:
  Kim Hamilton Duffy and Wayne Chang and Heather Vescent
Scribe:
  Manu Sporny
Present:
  Justin Richer, Heather Vescent, Manu Sporny, Mahmoud Alkhraishi, 
  Chris Winczewski, Charles E. Lehner, Mike Prorock, Ted Thibodeau, 
  Taylor Kendall, Wayne Chang, Adrian Gropper, Matthieu Coll√©, Kim 
  Hamilton Duffy, Orie Steele, Ryan Grant, Juan Caballero, Dmitri 
  Zagidulin, Kayode Ezike
Audio:
  https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/2021-04-27/audio.ogg

Manu Sporny is scribing.
Wayne Chang:  Welcome to the CCG weekly meeting. This is April 
  27th - talking about IIW recap and Traceability API today.
Wayne goes over standard IPR agreement language -- get W3C 
  account - sign contributor license agreement -- all calls 
  recorded and transcribed -- use the queue to speak.

Topic: Introductions / Reintroductions

Justin Richer:  Hi Justin Richer, independent consultant out of 
  Boston area -- working with Secure Key - haven't been able to 
  make it to CCG calls lately, but wanted to drop in and hear about 
  IIW.
Justin Richer:  I do a lot of work in IETF, OpenID Foundation, 
  Kantara, W3C, on a bunch of different efforts, have my hands in 
  lots of different things.
Wayne Chang:  Any reintroductions?
Wayne Chang:  None, so moving on.

Topic: Announcements and Reminders

Heather Vescent:  Today is the first CCG 101 session, Mike 
  Prorock is doing intro to supply chain and VCs
Heather Vescent:  This is the first of a set of 101 sessions.
VC HTTP API inviation for this Thursday -- 
  https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-credentials/2021Apr/0166.html
3Pm ET
Heather Vescent: Mike Prorock does a CCG 101 Tuesday, April 17, 
  2pm PDT / 5pm EDT / 22:00 BST / 23:00 CEST / 6am+1 KST / 9am+1 
  NZST
Manu Sporny:  We'll be discussing VC HTTP API -- please join if 
  you're interested -- information on the mailing list.

Topic: Action Items

https://github.com/w3c-ccg/community/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3A%22action%3A+review+next%22
Wayne Chang:  VC Maintenance Meeting -- we did make a PR with the 
  process on how to make changes to the VC specification
Wayne Chang:  Please review the PR -- will send it out to the 
  mailing list.
https://github.com/w3c/vc-data-model/pull/774
Wayne Chang:  Just sent a PR on how to update the specs for the 
  maintenance version -- maintenance mode -- not focused on adding 
  new features at this time.
Wayne Chang:  Would like new features to be housed in repo -- 
  contributions, extensions, will happen later this year.
Wayne Chang:  General process I can review quickly here...
Wayne Chang:  Only focused on merging Errata PRs for now... then 
  editors/chairs mark issues -- substantive, non-substantive, 
  editorial, etc. New features will need rechartering of WG... W3C 
  CCG will be notified, then PRs merged in 14 days.
Wayne Chang:  VCWG will meet from time to time and merge PRs in 
  branches to make formal recommendation for publishing new 
  versions of the specifications.
Wayne Chang:  If you're interested in making changes to VC spec, 
  that's how you do it.
Orie Steele: IIW also led to a new unification between aries and 
  didcomm and vc http api / DIF presesentation exchange :)
<by_caballero> ^ good first steps!
<orie> which I'm really excited to see level us up in terms of 
  wallet exchanges and interoperability
Heather Vescent: (Scribe assist) manu: thank's Wayne, hopefully 
  the process is straightforward with the right safeguards, but 
  still enable people to innovate on the base. Item of note: a lot 
  of peopel are spread between a lot of groups right now: DID Spec 
  is in CR and getting finalized, LDS work starting, the VC HTTP 
  API work, in general there is a lot of work going on. It is going 
  to take a while for us to re-prioritize the right work is 
  happening in the right place. People shouldn't expect the VC spec 
  to move quickly. We should have a process that allows people to 
  make request and get reviews. People should understanding 
  everyone is really overworked and don't expect things to go 
  quickly with any of this work.
Orie Steele: Nobody expects the CCG to mvoe quickly :)
Orie Steele:  I'd like to summarize some of the conversations w/ 
  presentations wrt. IIW --
Wayne Chang:  Going to cover that at the end

Topic: Traceability API

Wayne Chang:  What is the traceability API, who's involved, etc?
Orie Steele:  For those not familiar with this work, CCG work 
  item that's been active in community -- focused on JSON interop 
  for Verifiable Credentials -- number of components to make that 
  work at scale... additional tooling around JSON-LD and JSON 
  Schema, to pull thsoe two things together... if you canre more 
  about JSON Schema, you can lean more on it... if you want 
  JSON-LD, you can focus on that
Mike Prorock: Note: this will be getting discussed at a high 
  level in the 101 call later on today
<mprorock> the vocab and VC creation and Data Model aspects
Orie Steele:  We've add a bunch of JSON-LD tooling, work item 
  that has a use case requirements section -- use cases for 
  describing VCs for supply chain traceability -- data model for 
  supply chain, use GS1 vocab, INCHI/CHEBI for chemicals, broad set 
  of vocab for traceability -- fairly useless just by itself.
Orie Steele:  You need a set of APIs that need it's API -- 
  Traceability vocabulary -- valid JSON Schema, valid JSON-LD, spec 
  is built properly -- many of companies working on Traceability... 
  working on VC HTTP API endpoints... supply chain traceability 
  credentials.
Orie Steele:  One of the challenges w/ that particular work items 
  -- lack of use cases, lack of requirements, no support for Holder 
  APIs -- representative of things wallets do -- present VCs, 
  receive VCs... as of today, internal API -- tests in isolation 
  that are powerful, but it can't actually show you any form of 
  interop in end-to-end. It has no authorization, you can't expose 
  it on public Internet.
Orie Steele:  So, Traceability API is a level up for the VC HTTP 
  API to make it something you can expose on public Internet, add 
  APIs for direct wallet interactions over HTTP -- wallet 
  interactions and wallet interaction protocols are a rough seas 
  area -- everything from VP request spec, presentation request... 
  to Presentation Request spec, which does data model for defining 
  how stuff works over DID Comm... to Bloom spec about flows for 
  HTTP and QR Code.
Orie Steele:  The Traceability API will take approach to iterate, 
  and drive toward consistent set of interfaces, enterprise grade 
  authn, presentation exchange... purpose of work item is to think 
  about traceability -- data model around vocab, businesses want to 
  use today -- what are best tools to solve that problem, looking 
  for more mature solutions... like DIDComm (IIW work) -- 
  tremendous community alignment around businesses exchanging 
  presentations around web
Wallets, native apps, backend services.
Orie Steele:  All of those use cases need to be 
  supported/addressed to prove out interoperability -- not just web 
  wallets, not just back end services, move presentations around 
  trust boundaries, we need that today -- that's what Traceability 
  API is meant to solve.
Manu Sporny:  +1 To those needs in the ecosystem. The issue is 
  that not all those things are about traceability. There are needs 
  outside of traceability for that. +1 for getting together to move 
  forward quickly, we need to make sure we need to align all these 
  people. Some companies and people are frusterated by the rate of 
  progress. [scribe assist by Heather Vescent]
Manu Sporny:  It sounds like it's an implementation guide for 
  traceability, it covers data models and how do you authenticate 
  system, and wondering if that may be a better way to convey the 
  language. It's fine to put experimental API in there, but calling 
  it an API is misleading because it's an ecosystem thing. It's not 
  just focused on APIs. [scribe assist by Heather Vescent]
<orie> I agree its more than just an API
<orie> its a useable ecosystem
<wayne_chang> "Traceability System Overlay"
Manu Sporny:  So wondering your thoughts Orie and other supply 
  chain folks. For example, I can imagine having implementation 
  guides for traceabilibity, citizen cards, education and enable 
  each sector to move at their speed. Allow those that can move 
  faster to move faster and feed those learnings back into the 
  ecosystem. [scribe assist by Heather Vescent]
Manu Sporny:  Without feeding that back into the foundational 
  specification, we will diverge which will create more work in the 
  future. [scribe assist by Heather Vescent]
Manu Sporny:  What's the feedback loop for this work? [scribe 
  assist by Heather Vescent]
Orie Steele:  Yeah, I think in a word -- the word ecosystem feels 
  good, Implementation Guide feels too narrow -- Traceability 
  Ecosystem I'd be fine with.
Ted Thibodeau: +1 To msporny's comments
Orie Steele:  The non-negotiable is some ability to put a certain 
  set of pieces together in a certain set of interop tests at a 
  certain level of security. We need to be able to describe 
  Authorization, capabilities, use cases together in an ecosystem. 
  That unification is a continuous process, people are creating new 
  serialization formats, CBOR-LD -- support it right out of the 
  gate, probably not... does word API preclude you from doing that 
  level of work... I don't know the answer to that quewstion, 
  naming is hard.
Orie Steele:  The Traceability issue right now is authorization, 
  API -- solved by API -- but if you want to make it more broad, 
  Traceability Ecosystem -- spanning multiple things -- that's true 
  -- I'd be willing to expand scope to work on those items, as long 
  as we don't lose sight of being able to do the thing we need to 
  do.
<tallted> "Traceability API" and what's been posted on github 
  discussions suggests a much lower-level focus, than what's now 
  being orally described by Orie
Adrian Gropper:  This is the first I've heard of the Traceability 
  API and it really raises a huge issue for me.
https://github.com/w3c-ccg/community/issues/191
<wayne_chang> ^ Traceability API proposal
Adrian Gropper:  This was not discussed at IIW, which is 
  authorization -- what I saw at IIW, particularly because Justin 
  wasn't there, and no one seemed to care that much, is runaway 
  train around messaging as the API layer on top of DIDs and VCs as 
  opposed to authorization as the next most important thing on top 
  of DIDs and VCs.
Justin Richer: +1 To Adrian's comments on messaging vs other 
  layers
<orie> ... yeah... there is no authorization anywhere in the 
  econsystem today... trace api is the first to add 1 mandatory to 
  implement solution to authorization.
<orie> I think Adrian would love it.
Adrian Gropper:  I ran a session called "Agency By Design 
  (Privacy is not enough)" -- as long as we continue to look at 
  DIDComm and other messaging security as non-authorization layer 
  on top of data models, this is doomed to go in circles for years.
Ted Thibodeau:  What has just been vocally described has a much 
  higher level focus than an API -- it's not just about naming; why 
  is Provo not looked at here? Provenance Ontology, designed and 
  built over years to cover most of what I understand to exist in 
  Traceability API/Vocabulary/??? whatever name of the same thing 
  that's being put out there.
<orie> ontologies are for the vocab... no the api
<rgrant> can someone post a link to the Provenance Ontology?
https://www.w3.org/TR/prov-o/
<wayne_chang> ^ PROV-O
<orie> some people need interoperability now!
<justin_r> +1, specs are for interop and stability, not for 
  expedience
Orie Steele: :)
Dmitri Zagidulin: +1 To what Orie said -- prov-o is just the data 
  model (which this group already has), has nothing to do with the 
  API
Ted Thibodeau:  I'm also particularly concerned about the "Need 
  it now" attitude -- you don't need a spec/standard that the world 
  needs... if you need it now, you just need to do your thing, if 
  people join, that's great -- if you're doing something 
  useful/valuable, people will benefit.
https://www.w3.org/TR/prov-o/ ?
<orie> I object to the passive aggressive tone of "take a 
  breath".
<mprorock> @brent +1 yes, that is the reference
Orie Steele: I'm not telling anyone to do anything... I am 
  offering folks a boat that moves faster. you are welcome to sit 
  on the shore :)
Ted Thibodeau:  If you're not ready to do it on your own, take a 
  breath, this is not something that goes at racetrack speeds... 
  developing these specs takes years, sometimes it takes decades, 
  RFCs continue to progress... take a breath... you're telling us 
  to race ahead, just OK the thing you want... you're not asking us 
  to take our time, consider what is being put out. Accept what's 
  being put out, I'm not going to... so, take a breath, think about 
  what you're trying to do.
Ted Thibodeau:  If you want to just create software, open source 
  is great, break it, release early and often... will stop ranting 
  now.
Wayne Chang:  Thank you, appreciate the passion, we'll take the 
  kindest interpretation of them.
Dmitri Zagidulin: Hey authorization is hard :)
Orie Steele:  There are many communities that work on this 
  ecosystem, Adrian pointed out -- authz is a big blank, nobody 
  things about authz -- people want to focus on data models, 
  protocols, there is DIF, W3C, Hyperledger, everyone is working on 
  their own version of this... everyone is going as fast as they 
  can, holding their breath, etc.
Juan Caballero: 
  https://github.com/decentralized-identity/decentralized-identity.github.io/blob/master/assets/crosscommunity-architecture-survey-oct-2020.pdf
<by_caballero> Authorization is HARD
Orie Steele:  Everyone has their own way of doing these things... 
  none of them are interoperable, none of them consider 
  authorization, work on things on authorization, if you're 
  passionate about that -- HTTP API, works at scale, you need to 
  have an opprotunity to design and work on that. offering folks an 
  ability to collaborate and work together, sometimes collaboration 
  means duplication of work.
Juan Caballero: The interop group put it in the "transversal" 
  category partly because you can ignore it when designing a stack, 
  but it has consequences at every level when you want to change it 
  :D
Orie Steele:  OpenID -- tremendous amount of work going on right 
  now... I work on DIF, work on CCG, I'm committed to interop 
  across large number of folks that don't want to work together, we 
  need to have a place to work together, don't think everything 
  needs to be under same work item... universal wallet, VP Request, 
  all scrambling around same set of features/issues -- we already 
  have fracture in community, that's healthy, certain amount of 
  interplay that's expected.
Orie Steele:  Folks are going to show up, speak their mind, will 
  be at VC HTTP API -- also want to make sure concerns are being 
  heard, have a place to move forward at approrpiate space... VC 
  HTTP API and Traceability API is different... see them as 
  different things, things change as people join...
Orie Steele:  It's a mistake to think as everything as one work 
  item and fit everyone into one world view, multiple world views 
  can be supported in the community, Traceability API -- 
  Traceability Ecosystem -- Traceability Guide for Enterprise 
  Interop -- Traceability Authz -- different from what VC HTTP API 
  is today
Orie Steele:  We need to be supportive of differences in 
  community and enable people to work on thigns they want to work 
  on.
Mike Prorock:  Want to roll it back to Manu's comment -- while 
  this started with Supply Chain and Enterprise interop -- not 
  burdened by IP -- we need to exchange, hold, present... the 
  ecosystem aspects are well called out. I like the notion of 
  calling it an Implementation Guide or something along those 
  lines.
Mike Prorock:  Some of the original motivation there, VC HTTP API 
  did not have certain key methods or ability to get in methods 
  that let us handle some of the issues we're dealing w/ on supply 
  chain side of things.
Mike Prorock:  If extensions are ok in Implementation Guides, and 
  then if that moves bakc upstream, then cool -- but Implementation 
  Guide on it's own doesn't scream definition of new APIs/endpoints 
  on that -- Manu, don't know if you have thoughts on that.
<tallted> "in the course of implementation and writing 
  implementation guide, we found need for this extension, that 
  clarification, this radical change" is all good
<mprorock> I am glad to hear I am not the only person with 
  chickens in the background
Juan Caballero:  I was going to add something similar -- I don't 
  know if Implementation Guide is the right thing -- don't mind if 
  that's what it's called. Many to one relationship to vocabs to VC 
  HTTP API -- could conceivably have extensions that might original 
  from vocabulary efforts, ecosystem efforts, traceability 
  ecosystem item of some kind, extends API spec in a branch, as 
  long as extension doesn't require breaking changes, as long as 
  groups are in dialog, multiple implementation guides by 
  vocab/ecossytem/etc.
<orie> agree with Juan... folks who come from a vertical need a 
  softer landing spot.
Juan Caballero:  VC HTTP API, would assume Vaccination / Good 
  Health Pass / would have it's own input... and API spec more 
  slowly itnegrates things that move faster. I like Manu's initial 
  question, how do we make sure it's a sustainable feedback loop -- 
  good redundancy, front-running, whatever flow works well for 
  people I think is good.
<by_caballero> "landing spot"
<orie> I can live with implementation guide, as long as we can 
  define API Endpoints and Authorization.
<by_caballero> "traceability onramp"
<kim> when does something need to be a CCG work item? What do the 
  participants get out of it, and what does the CCG get out of it? 
  There has been a touch of "move fast act questions later" 
  attitude in discussions around this work item, which runs counter 
  to the ability of others to contribute
<orie> "traceability new world order"
<kim> I think that IPR protection is what the participants get 
  out of it, but that also puts a burden on the community to make 
  sense of it
<wayne_chang> Traceability Ecosystem Schematics
Manu Sporny:  What I'm hearing is good. I heard Orie say, maybe 
  calling it an API, we could call it something else, maybe not 
  implementation guide, but we can re-name it. Orie: we are trying 
  to give a realistic view of how to do this, when things are 
  missing, we want to plug that gap quickly. We don't want to make 
  this a 3-6 month effort, we want to document it quickly and work 
  together to flow backwards into a foundational API or otherwise 
  spec. The goal is to effectively be the tip of the spear, and 
  blaze paths and do all those thigns and document it. So they can 
  be rolled back into these APIs. This is a healthy thing to do. 
  trying to balance these things [scribe assist by Heather Vescent]
<wayne_chang> but less clumsy
Manu Sporny:  Heard and agree with Ted, not agree to things 
  blindly. Manu, I am not hearing they want that rubber stamp, they 
  want to document and move these things back in. [scribe assist by 
  Heather Vescent]
<bengo> eg publishing a Note vs a CR
<orie> Traceability API might become DIDComm + PE
<orie> it might look radically different than VC HTTP API
<orie> or not....
Manu Sporny:  The name of the work item made people go down the 
  path. Now that we have talked about it. It's clear the 
  traceability folks want to innovation, talk about presentation, 
  holder API, etc, which then hopefully get rolled back int eh 
  general spec if they are broadly applicable. So, it may just be, 
  we are working through the process. [scribe assist by Heather 
  Vescent]
<wayne_chang> Traceability Recipe Book
Manu Sporny:  I think API is the wrong name and sending the wrong 
  message. Ecosystem, implementation guide are better names. So we 
  should figure that out. [scribe assist by Heather Vescent]
<cel> Traceability Profile?
<wayne_chang> ooh, profile
<agropper> How many ways can we talk about APIs without using the 
  word "authorization??
<orie> authorization... not authentication.
Manu Sporny:  Whatever they need to do to move that forward. 
  [scribe assist by Heather Vescent]
Orie Steele: +1 Adrian
Mike Prorock: +1 Authorization more than authentication - still 
  an elephant in the room, but it is starting to comeout into the 
  open
Heather Vescent: ... Suggestion: rename it to reflect what was 
  said on the call today. To enable the traceability folks to 
  innovate at the edges with the caveat there is a feedback loop to 
  bring it back to the broader spec where applicable.
Ryan Grant:  Technical question -- is OWL2 and provenance mapped 
  into JSON-LD COntexts, do we have it available for VCs? If we 
  wanted to encode Provenance ontology, but not mapped into JSON-LD 
  Contexts, how would we do it?
<dmitriz> the PROV-O provenance ontolgoy has to do with 
  provenance of ideas/creative works. Not in the sense that the 
  Traceability cohort is using it
<mprorock> *prov-o
Orie Steele:  The question of how to map existing ontologies and 
  schema systems together to supply chain traceability is entire 
  purpose of Traceability vocab -- already have some examples of 
  this sort of thing -- introduction uses fancy integration for 
  JSON Schema dn JSON-LD, if you're interested in that, that work 
  item is wlel suited to taking in ecosystem ideas that have 
  adoption.
<tallted> PROV-O covers brick-and-mortar as well.  Speaking as 
  one of those involved in that WG.
<orie> We have touched Provenance
<orie> regarding the VC topic of Evidence
<orie> Spherity in particular
<orie> has contributed to this
<orie> significantly
Mike Prorock:  I find PROVO very interesting, in Trace vocab 
  itself, we haven't touched on actual provenance, not on trace 
  side... it's very much focused on metadata about objects that are 
  moving through traceability system... for very good reason -- 
  there are well defined vocabs out there that we like to reference 
  in, multiple parties in traceability side, GS1 is another example
Orie Steele: See https://w3c.github.io/vc-data-model/#evidence
Mike Prorock:  There are multiple definitions of change of 
  control, provenance, not trying to bypass -- not trying to tackle 
  that head-on yet.
<orie> "don't ask us no not use DIDs and VCs"
<orie> not "don't ask questions"
Kim Hamilton Duffy:  There is still something, an aspect of this 
  work item that we're missing, this has stretched the boundaries 
  of CCG work items -- the way I think about it is in some ways -- 
  in original issue -- there was a touch of "don't ask questions, 
  don't give us feedback on use case". I, above anyone, get the 
  idea of move fast ask question slater attitude around it, might 
  be interesting, may be interesting to the group -- hard to give 
  feedback in that capacity.
Heather Vescent: +1 Kim
Kim Hamilton Duffy:  This is interesting for Chairs to weigh in, 
  why can't participants want to do open source anywhere? They do 
  they IPR protection, it does put burden on community/Chairs  -- I 
  am an outgoing chair, I do want to call out that this work item 
  is more explicitly stressing limited Chairing resources that we 
  have. That was not made explicity, I do think we can come up with 
  some solutions here, have feedback loop, let's continue to think 
  about this topic.
<orie> There is a new DIF work item, which essentially covers the 
  same space... APIs for Presentation Exchange... I'm trying to 
  keep things aligned.
<heathervescent> Wayne, we can kick the IIW conversation to next 
  week if you like
<wayne_chang> Sure, that sounds good heather, thanks
<orie> IMO the IIW conversation is the same conversation... its 
  about how to do interoperability
<orie> in the open.
<orie> we made significant progress on this topic.
<orie> at IIW
Adrian Gropper:  I put myself on the queue because, one thing 
  that happened at IIW, relates to this discussion -- session w/ 
  Dave Huseby and Sam Smith on variations on authentic data -- 
  those sessions resuletd in post-IIW exchange between three of us 
  -- five different things that are all the same thing 
  udnerneath... how do you have an endorsed document. How do you 
  have a notarized document (log access).. How do you have witness 
  signature (no log). How do you have registry. How do you have 
  revocation?
<wayne_chang> @Orie there were some sessions at IIW not 
  explicitly focused on technical interoperability that could be 
  good to discuss too
Adrian Gropper:  It was the most interesting part of IIW for me - 
  to have this pulled out... interesting
<by_caballero> I would add that authorization and AUDIT were key 
  themes at IIW this time around-- and I was here for it!
Adrian Gropper:  Can you list the five things again, in text 
  here? [scribe assist by Ryan Grant]
<kim> Manu - that's not why it's frustrating
<kim> We are super comfortable with path blazing, I assure you
<orie> CCG has process for having regular calls... and repos... 
  same as DIF, and OIDF.
Kim Hamilton Duffy:  I'm curious to hear more [scribe assist by 
  Heather Vescent]
<orie> the work isn't going anywhere else
<orie> but the work will happen elsewhere for sure.
Orie Steele: :)
<orie> we can't avoid that.
Adrian Gropper:  Oh, nevermind, Manu got them all: endorsement, 
  notarizing, witness, registry, revocation. [scribe assist by Ryan 
  Grant]
<orie> the W3C isn't the only place where these topics are 
  addressed.
<tallted> (DRM = Digital Rights Management)
Manu Sporny:  To try and propose a concrete path forward. Blazing 
  a path forward might be a bit frustrating for some, but this is 
  the next part of the evolution. Industries need to work together 
  to adopt this work. I'd hate to see this work go somewhere else 
  due to frustration. I'd like to see its home here, where things 
  are well defined. Rough Analogy: W3C had a choice to allow DRM 
  [scribe assist by Peter Mackinnon]
<kim> "there was a choice" <-- can you give more context for that 
  Manu?
Manu Sporny:  There was a choice made at W3C that its better to 
  have the work here rather than lose the work to somewhere else. 
  There are issues, but its a healthy work item to have here 
  [scribe assist by Peter Mackinnon]
Heather Vescent:  I guess I'll weigh in in a Chair perspective, 
  which I agree with to a degree and see a way through. We as a 
  community are levelling up, this was by design, we had a vision 
  of what we wanted this community to be - we worked hard -- ths is 
  a growing pain.
Heather Vescent:  One of the things I've been able to contribute 
  is Heilmeier questions, we want to make the stuff we're working 
  on here more accessible... we're in the deep end, pushing edge of 
  innovation, people that are coming in... it's overwhelming, 
  discombobulating, work doing w/ CCG 101 work items, build a 
  bridge from bleeding edge of innovation to other folks that are 
  coming in.
<by_caballero> landing spot was a really good point Orie made-- i 
  would love it if VC-HTTP-API's repo even pointed to more specific 
  implementation guides and/or beginner's guides (including the 
  CCG101 material, etc)
<by_caballero> s/ even/just/
Heather Vescent:  This is a pipeline strategy -- to have more 
  people come into community whether or not they're technical, 
  non-technical, poets, humanities, or developers -- the thing that 
  really concerns/challenges me about Traceability thing is -- it's 
  a good problem to have, Anil John and DHS has funded a lot of 
  this work -- that has been built within a private 
  group/community, so if you're not a fudned company, that's an 
  even deeper end. We need to build a bridge from that back to 
  general CCG.
<orie> I object to what heather is saying... we have always done 
  our traceability work in the open in github.
<orie> we use the tools the working group provides
Orie Steele: :)
<justin_r> a huge +1 to Heather's point just now.
Heather Vescent:  We are building that bridge, people new to 
  community, not in that project has made it understandable and 
  accessible. Orie, not saying you're not working in the open... 
  there is a difference between working ing ithub vs. the work 
  being easily accessible.
Orie Steele: Strong agree heather :) need better W3C CCG process 
  enforcement.
<kim> She's correct -- whatever is in github is just a flattening 
  of hours and hours of conversations that no one else is privy to. 
  Also, private slack groups for those members
Heather Vescent:  There needs to be a transition... work done at 
  DHS transition to open community. Like, "we are transferring that 
  to the community".
<orie> ^ yep, need public meetings with minutes to solve that
Adrian Gropper: +1 Heather
Orie Steele:  "Process enforcement" == "slow down and take a 
  breath" [scribe assist by Justin Richer]
Justin Richer:  Not if its easy to use JITSI :) [scribe assist by 
  Orie Steele]
Wayne Chang:  We're nearing the end of the hour, we'll continue 
  IIW discussion next week... a few timely reminders... Thursday at 
  3pm VC HTTP API work.
<mahmoud_alkhraishi> is there a traceability api ( or w.e we're 
  calling it) call today?
Wayne Chang:  On that topic, you had comments on DIF on VC HTTP 
  API -- Orie, update there?
Orie Steele:  That is both incorrect and dismissive... [scribe 
  assist by Justin Richer]
<kim> I tried to join that slack group to get more context and 
  was rejected
Orie Steele:  More related to IIW conversations that Adrian 
  alluded to... is that what you're asking for?
<heathervescent> Oh yeah, is there a traceability call today?
<brent_shambauh> for inspiration, I like this link for ipfs 
  concepts. https://proto.school/ .
Orie Steele:  Yes, resulting work happening at DIF -- work 
  happening elsewhere, IETF, DIF, Hyperledger -- and that's ok -- 
  part of work happening at IIW is major coming together of folks 
  wrt. BBS+ and VCs and alignment on using DID Comm to exchange 
  those credentials.
Orie Steele:  Presentation exchange over HTTP for DID Comm -- for 
  presentation exchange, same kinda work that is happening here -- 
  built on different set of standards/technology -- well 
  documented, available for folks to use, things I'm most excited 
  about -- Aries and DIDComm, focused on message-level security -- 
  built on top of JOSE, coming together with people for HTTP APIs - 
  tiny gap, people working together, DIF work item targeted at 
  that... DIDComm and Presentation Exchange, DIF -- related to work 
  in CCG or OpenID Foundation -- we'll see that evolve over time.
Orie Steele:  If that's of interest, please reach out to get 
  insight into what's happening there.
Wayne Chang:  Would you mind sending an invtie to the mailing 
  list, Orie?
Wayne Chang:  Thanks, see you next week!
<by_caballero> remember the CCG101 meeting today too
<by_caballero> in 3 hours
Heather Vescent: @Manu: all good in the jitsi?
