[2018-07-03T16:00:15.864Z]  <markus_sabadello>  voip: 019e is markus_sabadello
[2018-07-03T16:00:19.948Z]  <ChristopherA>  voip: 19d is Christopher Allen
[2018-07-03T16:00:25.396Z]  <ChristopherA>  present+ Christopher Allen
[2018-07-03T16:00:31.303Z]  <manu>  present+
[2018-07-03T16:00:31.337Z]  <markus_sabadello>  present+
[2018-07-03T16:00:38.762Z]  <ChristopherA>  agenda https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-credentials/2018Jul/0004.html
[2018-07-03T16:00:46.900Z]  <manu>  Agenda: https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-credentials/2018Jul/0004.html
[2018-07-03T16:01:34.963Z]  <ChristopherA>  scribe list: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1LkqZ10z7FeV3EgMIQEJ9achEYMzy1d_2S90Q_lQ0y8M/edit?usp=sharing
[2018-07-03T16:02:11.631Z]  <ChristopherA>  scribe:
[2018-07-03T16:02:21.016Z]  <ChristopherA>  scribe: Ganesh Annan
[2018-07-03T16:02:22.664Z]  <manu>  scribe: gannan
[2018-07-03T16:03:17.318Z]  <Drabiv>  voip: 1a3 is drabiv
[2018-07-03T16:03:27.330Z]  <lparker> present+
[2018-07-03T16:03:34.141Z]  <heathervescent>  present+
[2018-07-03T16:03:40.723Z]  <dmitriz> present+
[2018-07-03T16:03:45.486Z]  <manu>  Topic: Introductions and Reintroductions
[2018-07-03T16:03:49.307Z]  <gannan>  ChristopherA: Agenda Review, usual announcements and reminders and then focal use cases
[2018-07-03T16:04:18.371Z]  <rgrant>  voip-ccg: connections
[2018-07-03T16:04:29.623Z]  <rgrant>  voip-ccg: 1af is rgrant
[2018-07-03T16:04:40.831Z]  <kimhd> present+
[2018-07-03T16:04:44.998Z]  <manu>  present+ richardkraaijenhagen
[2018-07-03T16:04:51.397Z]  <chrisb>  voip-ccg: 12063566879 is chrisb
[2018-07-03T16:04:59.497Z]  <JoeAndrieu>  voip: 1b0 is JoeAndrieu
[2018-07-03T16:05:04.238Z]  <JoeAndrieu>  present+
[2018-07-03T16:05:04.897Z]  <gannan>  dlehn: Hi, this is David Lehn from Digital Bazaar. I have been involved in the Verifiable Credentials work for a while doing core Open Source implementations. Looking forward to continuing to participate.
[2018-07-03T16:05:12.652Z]  <chrisb>  voip-ccg: SIP/69.65.34.216-000001a2 is chrisb
[2018-07-03T16:05:38.910Z]  <jungly>  present+
[2018-07-03T16:06:07.399Z]  <irene> Irene Hernandez here, working now full time on a decentralized identity project named Gataca. This is my first call with the W3C and looking forward to contributing to this group!
[2018-07-03T16:06:14.219Z]  <manu>  voip: 1a2 is chrisb
[2018-07-03T16:06:17.277Z]  <manu>  present+ Lionel
[2018-07-03T16:06:31.731Z]  <manu>  voip: connections?
[2018-07-03T16:07:52.066Z]  <Wolberger> irene, good to see you here!
[2018-07-03T16:07:12.487Z]  <manu>  Topic: Transparency
[2018-07-03T16:07:41.841Z]  <drummond>  voip: drummond is 13b
[2018-07-03T16:07:43.826Z]  <manu>  voip: number?
[2018-07-03T16:07:57.221Z]  <ChristopherA>  q?
[2018-07-03T16:07:58.850Z]  <manu>  voip: 13b is drummond
[2018-07-03T16:08:01.737Z]  <Lionel_Wolberger>  q?
[2018-07-03T16:08:36.518Z]  <cwebber2>  present+ Chris_Webber
[2018-07-03T16:08:43.177Z]  <manu>  voip: number?
[2018-07-03T16:08:47.117Z]  <apowers> present+ apowers313
[2018-07-03T16:09:26.909Z]  <JoeAndrieu>  voip: 1b3 is Drummond
[2018-07-03T16:09:33.151Z]  <drummond>  voip: 1b3 is drummond
[2018-07-03T16:10:06.482Z]  <ChristopherA>  q?
[2018-07-03T16:10:15.591Z]  <gannan>  ChristopherA: Any quick questions on IRC methodology and using the queue?
[2018-07-03T16:10:18.423Z]  <drummond>  Good summary, Christopher
[2018-07-03T16:10:46.345Z]  <gannan>  ChristopherA: ircCloud is good when using the phone
[2018-07-03T16:10:50.257Z]  <manu>  Topic: Announcements and Reminders
[2018-07-03T16:11:04.943Z]  <ChristopherA>  announcements page: https://w3c-ccg.github.io/announcements/
[2018-07-03T16:12:24.489Z]  <gannan>  ChristopherA: Created a special webpage for announcements and reminders. On it now is the virtual hackathon, we'll be working on the btcr method. We'd love to see other did methods and json-ld folks.
[2018-07-03T16:12:35.649Z]  <rgrant>  i think DID Document validation and Verifiable claim parsing are hot topics too.
[2018-07-03T16:13:50.006Z]  <manu>  q+
[2018-07-03T16:13:51.039Z]  <markus_sabadello>  q+ about https://decentralizedweb.net/
[2018-07-03T16:14:02.918Z]  <ChristopherA>  q?
[2018-07-03T16:14:05.599Z]  <gannan>  ChristopherA: We're trying to charter the W3C working group at TPAC in Lyon, France
[2018-07-03T16:14:22.170Z]  <rgrant>  q+ do we have any updates on the W3C vote?
[2018-07-03T16:14:27.088Z]  <ChristopherA>  q?
[2018-07-03T16:14:34.038Z]  <ChristopherA>  ack manu
[2018-07-03T16:15:52.480Z]  <gannan>  manu: Quick update, talked to w3c staff about Rebooting... still a possibility for an event. Some staff is still interested in co-running something at Rebooting.
[2018-07-03T16:16:14.078Z]  <ChristopherA>  ack markus_sabadello
[2018-07-03T16:17:08.761Z]  <chase> Dweb conf is great! I'd love to help with panel
[2018-07-03T16:17:23.657Z]  <drummond>  Drummond is planning to attend the Decentralized Web Summit.
[2018-07-03T16:17:23.820Z]  <rgrant>  Decentralized Web event also mentioned in Vanity Fair
[2018-07-03T16:17:24.927Z]  <heathervescent>  Here is the link: https://www.eventbrite.com/e/decentralized-web-summit-2018-tickets-46312003449
[2018-07-03T16:17:30.172Z]  <chase> I was there two years ago, we presented webvr over IPFS
[2018-07-03T16:17:35.027Z]  <gannan>  markus_sabadello: An event in early August, in San Francisco... Decentralized Web.
[2018-07-03T16:17:58.157Z]  <ChristopherA>  ack rgrant
[2018-07-03T16:17:58.839Z]  <drummond>  Demo day is July 31, the event is Aug 1 and 2
[2018-07-03T16:18:18.417Z]  <gannan>  rgrant: Last week we heard about w3c voting, any updates?
[2018-07-03T16:19:23.288Z]  <rgrant>  do we know grounds for objections?
[2018-07-03T16:19:31.648Z]  <gannan>  manu: We are a long way from voting, looking at the end of the year. Until CCG produces required information there will be no vote. Will be presenting DID Spec at TPAC and may need another presentation after TPAC if there are any objections.
[2018-07-03T16:19:33.632Z]  <ChristopherA>  topic: Action Items
[2018-07-03T16:19:33.632Z]  <ChristopherA>  action items:  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/community/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3A%22action+item%22
[2018-07-03T16:19:33.632Z]  <ChristopherA>  Do we have any updates on the Veres One DID Method specification?
[2018-07-03T16:20:35.266Z]  <manu>  We are making an annoucement about the Veres One Community Group, the Board of Governors, and the Advisory Council later today. We are going into production in the next couple of months, we'll make those annoucements on the CG mailing list: https://www.w3.org/community/veres-one/
[2018-07-03T16:21:05.603Z]  <gannan>  manu: We will be updating the Veres One DID Spec after we go into production.
[2018-07-03T16:21:28.757Z]  <gannan>  ChristopherA: We would like to be kept up to date. There is also an issue on github on security, are you working on that?
[2018-07-03T16:23:00.667Z]  <dmitriz> do we have a link to the issue?
[2018-07-03T16:23:13.244Z]  <dmitriz> ah, ok: https://github.com/w3c-ccg/community/issues/10
[2018-07-03T16:23:20.282Z]  <gannan>  manu: David Lehn do you mind if I assign you the security vulnerability action item?
[2018-07-03T16:23:35.405Z]  <gannan>  dlehn: *groans*
[2018-07-03T16:23:53.962Z]  <ChristopherA>  q?
[2018-07-03T16:24:10.732Z]  <gannan>  ChristopherA: Any other action items we missed? If not we will be moving on to work items.
[2018-07-03T16:24:16.819Z]  <ChristopherA>  topic: Work Items
[2018-07-03T16:24:16.819Z]  <ChristopherA>  work items: https://github.com/w3c-ccg/community/blob/master/work_items.md
[2018-07-03T16:24:59.161Z]  <gannan>  ChristopherA: Any announcements or requests on work items?
[2018-07-03T16:25:49.279Z]  <gannan>  ChristopherA: What do we need to do to get the credential handler polyfill done?
[2018-07-03T16:26:47.265Z]  <gannan>  manu: We have an implementation, it will not go standards track until for another two years. We're getting implementation feedback as well. Status probably won't change over the year.
[2018-07-03T16:27:16.237Z]  <gannan>  ChristopherA: Inquiry from Firefox in how to integrate?
[2018-07-03T16:27:59.365Z]  <chase> can you explain what we need from a browser? I work closely with JanusVR, they recently opensourced their native client which is a broswer
[2018-07-03T16:28:25.007Z]  <gannan>  manu: It would be dangerous to involve browser manufacturers right now since it's too early.
[2018-07-03T16:28:34.604Z]  <chase> it would be interesting to use DID's with the presence server
[2018-07-03T16:29:00.478Z]  <chase> q+
[2018-07-03T16:29:00.565Z]  <ChristopherA>  q?
[2018-07-03T16:29:06.038Z]  <manu>  Topic: Focal Use Cases
[2018-07-03T16:29:06.698Z]  <ChristopherA>  q- chase
[2018-07-03T16:29:17.665Z]  <gannan>  ChristopherA: We're at the half hour mark so we'll be moving to the Focal Use Cases.
[2018-07-03T16:29:43.549Z]  <ChristopherA>  use cases https://docs.google.com/document/d/1wz8sakevXzO2OSMP341w7M2LjAMZfEQaTQEm_AOs3_Q/edit?usp=sharing
[2018-07-03T16:29:59.429Z]  <heathervescent>  I have a more general use case question.
[2018-07-03T16:30:12.406Z]  <manu>  q+ heathervescent
[2018-07-03T16:30:27.518Z]  <ChristopherA>  q?
[2018-07-03T16:31:53.548Z]  <ChristopherA>  sub-topic use case #14 e-profiles
[2018-07-03T16:32:42.832Z]  <gannan>  chase: Under the current system we have these eprofiles built. It would make more sense to have an e-profile kept to myself that has the same information that other e-profiles are built from.
[2018-07-03T16:33:19.098Z]  <gannan>  chase: We should be gaining control of our identity and then claiming the claims around that identity.
[2018-07-03T16:33:41.880Z]  <heathervescent>  It reminds me of the data "gems" (I forget which company did it)
[2018-07-03T16:34:26.699Z]  <ChristopherA>  q?
[2018-07-03T16:34:29.640Z]  <dmitriz> q+
[2018-07-03T16:34:33.385Z]  <Drabiv>  q+
[2018-07-03T16:34:36.908Z]  <heathervescent>  Yes, thanks.
[2018-07-03T16:34:41.822Z]  <ChristopherA>  ack dmitriz
[2018-07-03T16:34:52.899Z]  <gannan>  ChristopherA: I remember setting up my e-profile FOAF, later we had similar ideas with OpenID. They've all failed I can't bring my profile from one place to another. In particular in these use cases what is it that DIDs do differently to make things better this time?
[2018-07-03T16:35:15.180Z]  <rgrant>  DIDs are secure enough to have grounding with other uses in society, such as legal matters.  This should attract infrastructure better than FOAF.
[2018-07-03T16:35:22.245Z]  <ChristopherA>  q+
[2018-07-03T16:35:55.992Z]  <ChristopherA>  q- heathervescent
[2018-07-03T16:36:01.966Z]  <ChristopherA>  q+ heathervescent
[2018-07-03T16:36:05.970Z]  <drummond>  DIDs have a much broader set of applications than identity and profile sharing. They address a fundamental need for decentralized PKI.
[2018-07-03T16:36:19.558Z]  <gannan>  dmitriz: A central idea that I have is the lack of decentralized authentication and authorization is the reason why all these other solutions failed. The difference this time we have a better grasp on decentralized authentication via DID Auth and we have a better access control with capabilities.
[2018-07-03T16:36:20.498Z]  <ChristopherA>  ack Drabiv
[2018-07-03T16:36:36.599Z]  <drummond>  q+
[2018-07-03T16:36:45.950Z]  <chase> no
[2018-07-03T16:36:48.311Z]  <chase> private consumer profiles
[2018-07-03T16:37:05.927Z]  <gannan>  Drabiv: Regarding e-profiles, are we talking about social media profile or advertisement network profiles that is gathered information around you?
[2018-07-03T16:37:14.667Z]  <ChristopherA>  ack ChristopherA
[2018-07-03T16:37:24.697Z]  <Drabiv>  q+
[2018-07-03T16:37:39.785Z]  <chase> I think we can start with a consumer/intent profile, not social
[2018-07-03T16:37:47.127Z]  <manu>  q+ to note ad tech industry may be able to come to RWoT.
[2018-07-03T16:39:02.442Z]  <heathervescent>  Axciom was at IIW
[2018-07-03T16:39:02.629Z]  <ChristopherA>  ack drummond
[2018-07-03T16:39:02.690Z]  <gannan>  ChristopherA: FOAF was more of self attestation, which is personal representations without any authenticity checks. Then there was claims about other people such as on Twitter, I'm known as Christopher A.
[2018-07-03T16:39:04.076Z]  <markus_sabadello>  q+
[2018-07-03T16:39:11.658Z]  <chase> to me this use case is about first collecting all the representations of 'me' online through the back channels i.e third party profilers. Then I can see all of these different profiles and either verify or formally object to collected information
[2018-07-03T16:40:07.557Z]  <chase> let's forget social for just a moment, first this would be about identifying other profiles that exist and assigning my own verification to it or objecting.
[2018-07-03T16:40:07.628Z]  <ChristopherA>  q?
[2018-07-03T16:40:10.438Z]  <chrisb>  +1 to what drummond said
[2018-07-03T16:40:14.992Z]  <ChristopherA>  ack Drabiv
[2018-07-03T16:40:22.466Z]  <gannan>  drummond: It goes much deeper than profile sharing. DIDs address fundamentally for persisting an identity of a resource and decentralized PKI. There's nothing like it.
[2018-07-03T16:41:04.858Z]  <ChristopherA>  q+ ChristopherA
[2018-07-03T16:41:08.531Z]  <drummond>  DIDs are also a decentralized solution to persistent identification of a resource. That has been a longstanding need of the Web as a whole. So when you combine the ability to have persistent identification of a resource with the ability to do public key discovery and verification, all decentralized, DIDs are a major paradigm shift.
[2018-07-03T16:41:21.438Z]  <ChristopherA>  ack manu
[2018-07-03T16:41:25.765Z]  <gannan>  Drabiv: There's not that much for DID standard, they are not connected to our identity.
[2018-07-03T16:42:46.101Z]  <chrisb>  would it be helpful to have this group that gives an architectural view of the DID-base solution that Drummond described?
[2018-07-03T16:42:47.559Z]  <ChristopherA>  (New CA law only has fines of $750, or $2500 if egregious)
[2018-07-03T16:43:17.211Z]  <ChristopherA>  (GDPR is up to 4% of revenues)
[2018-07-03T16:43:26.306Z]  <ChristopherA>  q?
[2018-07-03T16:45:09.717Z]  <ChristopherA>  ack markus_sabadello
[2018-07-03T16:45:42.112Z]  <ChristopherA>  ack ChristopherA
[2018-07-03T16:45:59.799Z]  <manu>  present+ ottonomy
[2018-07-03T16:46:48.384Z]  <ChristopherA>  ack heathervescent
[2018-07-03T16:46:49.277Z]  <gannan>  manu: Two thoughts. The information collected on you, advertisers are not interested in sharing information that they have about you to you. This approach may not work in US but probably in Europe due to GDPR. There is an opportunity in the ad industry in which they can serve ads to a confirmed identity. They want it to be known that ads are shown to people that actually have those interests, using verifiable credentials. This conversation will be around converting consumers into their sales funnel. I'm a bit concerned about having that discussion, I just want to be very clear before going into it.
[2018-07-03T16:47:03.928Z]  <chrisb>  if you look at the taxonomy of DID uses cases, how many AREN'T verified claims?
[2018-07-03T16:47:08.338Z]  <ChristopherA>  q?
[2018-07-03T16:48:07.998Z]  <ChristopherA>  q+
[2018-07-03T16:48:57.185Z]  <manu>  q+ to note that this is more of an Object Capabilities use case... but ocaps on a ledger... DIDs could play a part.
[2018-07-03T16:49:15.665Z]  <chase_>  q+
[2018-07-03T16:49:21.097Z]  <gannan>  heathervescent: I've been thinking about delegation and reverse delegation: multiple identities come together to do a financial transaction. An example, is a group of people come together to open a joint bank account. Is there a situation where DIDs can be two or three, together create a DID that represents their collective identity?
[2018-07-03T16:49:25.122Z]  <ChristopherA>  ack ChristopherA
[2018-07-03T16:49:53.069Z]  <heathervescent>  q+
[2018-07-03T16:50:07.418Z]  <JoeAndrieu>  q+ to highlight the limits of the law wrt partnerships
[2018-07-03T16:50:24.628Z]  <gannan>  ChristopherA: I call that proof of association, but it could be more than that
[2018-07-03T16:50:50.678Z]  <chase> Like a DID fog?
[2018-07-03T16:51:02.817Z]  <heathervescent>  Well, I see this as more of a collective identity. Where people may bring parts of their reputation and associate it with the collective identity.
[2018-07-03T16:51:14.238Z]  <markus_sabadello>  q+
[2018-07-03T16:51:23.120Z]  <heathervescent>  Like someone might bring reputation, another may bring financial, etc.
[2018-07-03T16:51:24.062Z]  <ChristopherA>  ack manu
[2018-07-03T16:51:40.084Z]  <markus_sabadello>  q-
[2018-07-03T16:51:50.867Z]  <chase_>  q-
[2018-07-03T16:52:55.766Z]  <Drabiv>  DID vs. centralized IDs â€“ DID will shine where sovereignty (ultimate control over asset + e2ee) is required.
[2018-07-03T16:53:11.118Z]  <gannan>  manu: The thing that jumped out at me is that it's more of an ocap use case. There are many tools that we have that could address those use cases. It could be a ocap use case or a multi-sig use case
[2018-07-03T16:53:12.063Z]  <chase_>  q+
[2018-07-03T16:53:12.702Z]  <ChristopherA>  ack heathervescent
[2018-07-03T16:54:05.738Z]  <kimhd> +1 I'd like to see that paper
[2018-07-03T16:54:08.359Z]  <chase> what heather is talking about might be useful for the Guatemala use case, each person can assign an identity as part of their community? I'd love to talk about it more
[2018-07-03T16:54:29.850Z]  <manu>  heathervescent, to be clear -- I think there is a DID use case in there...
[2018-07-03T16:54:30.862Z]  <ChristopherA>  ack JoeAndrieu
[2018-07-03T16:54:44.138Z]  <manu>  heathervescent, like DIDs enable that use case you're talking about...
[2018-07-03T16:54:44.463Z]  <gannan>  heathervescent: Thank you everyone for their comments.
[2018-07-03T16:54:45.309Z]  <chase_>  q-
[2018-07-03T16:55:09.062Z]  <heathervescent>  OK, Thanks Manu. I may write up something brief.
[2018-07-03T16:55:14.684Z]  <kimhd> +1 to Manu's comment. I think there is a DID use cases in there AND others (OCAP, etc)
[2018-07-03T16:55:42.158Z]  <ChristopherA>  topic: DID-Auth
[2018-07-03T16:55:45.070Z]  <gannan>  JoeAndrieu: Definitely support a topic paper and potentially a great use case. This might be a good example of leveraging multi-sig.
[2018-07-03T16:56:25.672Z]  <JoeAndrieu>  q+ to comment on "ownership" and "identity"
[2018-07-03T16:56:55.078Z]  <ChristopherA>  draft of DID Auth https://github.com/WebOfTrustInfo/rebooting-the-web-of-trust-spring2018/blob/master/draft-documents/DID%20Auth.md
[2018-07-03T16:57:13.789Z]  <manu>  q+ for last minute input
[2018-07-03T16:57:17.917Z]  <gannan>  markus_sabadello: The paper on DID-Auth is in its final stages, I just wanted to take a snapshot of the community wisdom on DID-Auth.
[2018-07-03T16:57:57.580Z]  <rgrant>  markus_sabadello: is the paper a representation in any way about whether the scenarios are secure?
[2018-07-03T16:58:12.302Z]  <ChristopherA>  q?
[2018-07-03T16:58:18.527Z]  <rgrant>  markus_sabadello: (i.e. does it need review?)
[2018-07-03T16:58:20.222Z]  <gannan>  ChristopherA: One thing we wanted to get from you is what from the DID-Auth paper needs to be worked through as a potential work item in this group. This paper is a good overview of everyone's thoughts. What are some low hanging items we can work on as a group?
[2018-07-03T16:58:20.806Z]  <ChristopherA>  ack JoeAndrieu
[2018-07-03T16:58:52.857Z]  <markus_sabadello>  There's still time for review and comments: https://github.com/WebOfTrustInfo/rebooting-the-web-of-trust-spring2018/blob/master/draft-documents/did_auth_draft.md
[2018-07-03T16:59:15.140Z]  <ChristopherA>  ack manu
[2018-07-03T16:59:31.041Z]  <chrisb>  would "agency" or "control" be better than "ownership?
[2018-07-03T16:59:34.344Z]  <chrisb>  would "agency" or "control" be better than "ownership"?
[2018-07-03T17:00:14.769Z]  <ChristopherA>  q+
[2018-07-03T17:00:20.079Z]  <dmitriz> we mention OCap in the paper, fwiw
[2018-07-03T17:00:28.186Z]  <ChristopherA>  ack chrisb
[2018-07-03T17:00:31.437Z]  <markus_sabadello>  Happy to talk on a seprate call with manu about ocap in DID Auth.
[2018-07-03T17:00:33.566Z]  <ChristopherA>  ack ChristopherA
[2018-07-03T17:00:44.777Z]  <gannan>  manu: Skimming paper now, I see a lot of JWT which is concerning. I'm not seeing a lot of OCAP in the paper. We'll chat offline about using OCAP to using authentication, fantastic work on the paper, thank you for putting that together.
[2018-07-03T17:02:47.538Z]  <drummond>  Please note: I will be completely offline at a family reunion in Maine the week of July 9, so I won't be able to attend.
[2018-07-03T17:02:53.967Z]  <gannan>  ChristopherA: I want to get to authorization later, it's very important. Institutions want attestations that a bimoetric was used to open the private key. A particular hardware generation of a key was generated with trusted hardware. That's it for today, next week we may not be able to revisit the Guatemala use case.
[2018-07-03T17:03:26.583Z]  <gannan>  ChristopherA: Coming up on August 7th, proof of personhood. How can we prove that someone is a unique person?
[2018-07-03T17:03:30.779Z]  <heathervescent>  Thanks all. Bye.
[2018-07-03T17:03:30.779Z]  <gannan>  present+ Yancy, Orgel, cycryptr, tzviya
