[2021-01-11T16:00:00.000Z]	<kimhd>	Agenda: https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-credentials/2021Jan/0015.html
[2021-01-11T16:00:00.000Z]	<kimhd>	Resolution: Agreed to continue to use zoom for video/teleconferencing. We'll post audio recording plus high level notes, as opposed to transcripts, afterward
[2021-01-11T16:00:00.000Z]	<kimhd>	Topic: VC-EDU Work Plan for Q1 2021
[2021-01-11T16:00:00.000Z]	<kimhd>	Work plan link: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1oxez8ykQZm5uWAZ8KTDJvAh8P93_YLrzrqKuLM4PTL4/edit?ts=5ff5c040
[2021-01-11T16:00:00.000Z]	<kimhd>	Need to rework "ne bis in idem" section -- specify in the scope of a given work item
[2021-01-11T16:00:00.000Z]	<kimhd>	Discussed whether single vs multiple (e.g. VC vs VP) is in scope. Decided our focus for this work item is single.
[2021-01-11T16:00:00.000Z]	<kimhd>	Clarify that the goal is interoperability without creating a new standard, new terms that already exist. Reuse of existing standards where possible
[2021-01-11T16:00:00.000Z]	<kimhd>	Need to further clarify relationship to CLR, HR Open, PESC
[2021-01-11T16:00:00.000Z]	<kimhd>	Topic: To discuss next week
[2021-01-11T16:00:00.000Z]	<kimhd>	Review edits discussed above
[2021-01-11T16:00:00.000Z]	<kimhd>	Discuss use cases
[2021-01-11T16:00:00.000Z]	<kimhd>	Action: Create github issue template for adding use cases
[2021-01-11T16:00:00.000Z]	<kimhd>	Action: Clean up Modeling VC-EDU doc; move existing samples to appendix
[2021-01-11T16:00:00.000Z]	<kimhd>	Action: Respecify Modeling VC-EDU doc
[2021-01-11T16:00:00.000Z]	<kimhd>	present+ adamjlemmon, dward, JimKelly, Maarten, niaz, javaservlets, jameschartrand, stuartf, Simone_Ravaioli, Kerri_Lemoie, Jacks√≥n, matt_lisle, Kostas, keith_kowal, juan_caballero, jerry_ma, chriswinc, jkitchens, victoria_feng, keith_kowal, kimhd, AnthonyFCamilleri, Phil-T3, Timothy_Ruff
