[2021-04-26T16:00:00.000Z]	<kimhd>	Agenda: https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-credentials/2021Apr/0158.html
[2021-04-26T16:00:00.000Z]	<kimhd>	Topic: Introductions & Reintroductions
[2021-04-26T16:00:00.000Z]	<kimhd>	Introduced Rick Barfoot, Velocity
[2021-04-26T16:00:00.000Z]	<kimhd>	Introduced Andy Miller, IMS
[2021-04-26T16:00:00.000Z]	<kimhd>	Introduced Kristina Yasuda, MSFT
[2021-04-26T16:00:00.000Z]	<kimhd>	Topic: Announcements & Reminders
[2021-04-26T16:00:00.000Z]	<kimhd>	Topic: Learner Wallet Discussion
[2021-04-26T16:00:00.000Z]	<kimhd>	Slides: https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1Zp89z_bSkEyLc0rvp1ln6XwjNmewaFAawxFe8K44I34/edit#slide=id.gd34895ce5b_0_38
[2021-04-26T16:00:00.000Z]	<kimhd>	kimhd: Introducing background of DCC and MIT DOEd wallet project.
[2021-04-26T16:00:00.000Z]	<kimhd>	...Approach includes data model, interface, and implementation. Can adopt at any level. Approch allows applicabiliy to a broader set of wallets as well. For example the Aries wallet is contributing at the data model layer. You could in theory export your Aries data wallet and import it into something else.
[2021-04-26T16:00:00.000Z]	<kimhd>	...How the univeral wallet works. On one side you have generic wallet concepts...on the other, ones that are specfic for verifiable credentials...so for queries it might help to query specific types of verifiable credentials.
[2021-04-26T16:00:00.000Z]	<kimhd>	...Allows the functionality to implemented in a variety of ways...e.g. backed by Encrypted Data Vault (EDV) 
[2021-04-26T16:00:00.000Z]	<kimhd>	...Interaction flows inform wallet abstractions
[2021-04-26T16:00:00.000Z]	<kimhd>	...Learners may provide an identifier...possibly an decentralized identifier... 
[2021-04-26T16:00:00.000Z]	<kimhd>	ottonomy: how does the wallet know what to request (like credential offer)
[2021-04-26T16:00:00.000Z]	<kimhd>	kimhd: currently assumes that context is given by issuer. that would be a good contribution to the draft spec, in the presentation exchange part
[2021-04-26T16:00:00.000Z]	<kimhd>	dmitri: i wanted to ...about the issuance spec....part of ... spec community holder v... meaning either the issuer ...  the university or emailing .... the university...the holder contacting the issuer ...I would like you to issue me a credential ... one of the proposed standards is how do we ... in the other mode...so that is the
[2021-04-26T16:00:00.000Z]	<kimhd>	kimhd: we anchored to the vc http api...this flow should work for both styles ... even though we have these breeaks ... even though we call it out in the languguage...n
[2021-04-26T16:00:00.000Z]	<kimhd>	kristina:  one is you can technically use ... is it for verifiable credential ... how do you establish trust with each user wallet...currently being discussed in the connect working group....sort of a claims idea...using connect to issue the credential is sort of seperate ...using open id connect....
[2021-04-26T16:00:00.000Z]	<kimhd>	kimhd:  authentication mechanism is whatever the issuer wants to use...this is just an issuing entity....anything beyond that is also out of scope...in DCC we wanted to reuse that existing authentication
[2021-04-26T16:00:00.000Z]	<kimhd>	another fun aspect...what does it mean to verify a verifiable credential...verification vs. validation vs. ... all of these things....verification... and veracity... has it been well formed
[2021-04-26T16:00:00.000Z]	<kimhd>	has it been tampered with...up a layer to validation....these are cross cutting in intent....with a verifiable ....validation library....these are things that you would not expect a standard
[2021-04-26T16:00:00.000Z]	<kimhd>	verifiable credential library to do for your you....maybe that is specific to some kind of trade...some other sector kind of check....we can continue to iterate on that....maybe this would be
[2021-04-26T16:00:00.000Z]	<kimhd>	in a the next.... or the implementors guide.... verifying a verifiable credential...what bucket does this belong to...this is a general verifiable credential...
[2021-04-26T16:00:00.000Z]	<kimhd>	ottonomy: question about open source restful api.
[2021-04-26T16:00:00.000Z]	<kimhd>	kimhd: initial draft developed for DCC; everything we've done builds on that...would like to build out through vc-edu. Another example is oidc credential provider...that is a draft standard.
[2021-04-26T16:00:00.000Z]	<kimhd>	ottonomy: in all of these vc http api...in all of the those... the issuer in the resource server...any entity can take any role...a given entity .... a role of resource....right that is true....2 things) in our implementation of it
[2021-04-26T16:00:00.000Z]	<kimhd>	we stood up we created a library and a restful layer....the wallet could prove control over an identifer....it wouldn't be receiving restful requests....some wallets in the wallet angent....some stand up...
[2021-04-26T16:00:00.000Z]	<kimhd>	we are not making any assumption in terms of the student wallet spec
[2021-04-26T16:00:00.000Z]	<kimhd>	ottonomy: i am ...basically looking for simplicity....
[2021-04-26T16:00:00.000Z]	<kimhd>	kimhd: moving on, so next steps...contribute to any part you are interested in...data model...contribute there because tht benefits all wallets.... the wallet requirements....ssi type credential implemention....any final we are very close to time. let me know if you are interested in contributing to any part of this. also interested in high level feedback.
[2021-04-26T16:00:00.000Z]	<kimhd>	present+ kimhd, AnthonyFCamilleri, adamjlemmon, ottonomy, Phil-T3, bshambaugh, dmitriz, Jim_Goodell, JohnGasper, JeffMcCullough, JimKelly, keith_kowal, juan_caballero, Kerri_Lemoie, marty_reed, Simone_Ravaioli, matt_lisle, jameschartrand, stuartf, Phil-T3_Barker, StuartSutton, tayken, dward, jarlath, nick_hathaway, kezike, Balazs_, victoria_feng, pete_M, Eric_Kuhn, kristina, andy_miller_ims, rjbarfoo
