[Tue 11:04:09] <manu>	Agenda: https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-webpayments-ig/2016Feb/0007.html
[Tue 11:04:09] <manu>	scribe: ottonomy
[Tue 11:04:10] <ottonomy>	manu: Let's go ahead and get started.
[Tue 11:04:41] <ottonomy>	manu: On the agenda: A summary of the interviews we've done so far, figure out which documents we need by the Web Payments Face to Face, we are going to talk about the documents. Any additions to the Agenda?
[Tue 11:04:41] <ottonomy>	No additions to Agenda.
[Tue 11:04:45] <manu>	Topic: Summary of Interviews So Far
[Tue 11:04:57] <voip-vctf>	Rob Trainer [SIP/192.168.61.110-0000071d] has joined the conference.
[Tue 11:05:00] <manu>	Interview with Drummond Reed (of OASIS and XDI): http://w3c.github.io/vctf/meetings/2016-01-27/
[Tue 11:05:05] *	erkorb_rm (~eric.korb@public.cloak) has joined #vctf
[Tue 11:05:24] *	phofmanntsy (~hofmannp@public.cloak) has joined #vctf
[Tue 11:05:42] <ottonomy>	manu: We did four interviews last week. Drummond was very supportive of the problem statement we were trying to address, gave a lot of great input; he thought very deeply about what we were trying to say: what's user-centric, how does privacy play in the ecosystem...
[Tue 11:05:56] <manu>	Interview with Christopher Allen (co-editor of the SSL and TLS specifications): http://w3c.github.io/vctf/meetings/2016-01-28/
[Tue 11:06:17] <voip-vctf>	Eric Korb [SIP/sip.linphone.org-0000071e] has joined the conference.
[Tue 11:06:19] <voip-vctf>	Eric Korb [SIP/sip.linphone.org-0000071e] has left the conference.
[Tue 11:06:25] <ottonomy>	manu: Christopher was also fairly supportive of the problem statement. Very interesting insight into how SSL & TLS came to be, and some current crypto work at IETF.
[Tue 11:06:27] <voip-vctf>	bblfish [SIP/sip2sip.info-0000071f] has joined the conference.
[Tue 11:06:32] <voip-vctf>	Eric Korb [SIP/sip.linphone.org-00000720] has joined the conference.
[Tue 11:06:43] <voip-vctf>	Eric Korb [SIP/sip.linphone.org-00000720] has left the conference.
[Tue 11:06:52] *	bblfish (~bblfish@public.cloak) has joined #vctf
[Tue 11:06:52] <manu>	Interview with Dick Hardt (of Amazon and lots of Identity 2.0 / OpenID / OAuth work): http://w3c.github.io/vctf/meetings/2016-01-29-1/
[Tue 11:07:25] <voip-vctf>	Eric Korb [SIP/sip.linphone.org-00000721] has joined the conference.
[Tue 11:07:40] <ottonomy>	manu: Dick also was really helpful, thought very deeply about the problem; we got a lot of really good feedback about the previous initiatives that have played around in this area: OpenID Connect, OAuth, SAML, and Dick's involvement in those initiatives, and what he thought was achievable in the short term.
[Tue 11:08:09] <manu>	Interview with Michael Schwartz (who has implemented SAML, LDAP, OpenID Connect, OAuth2, and heads an Identity (OTTO) initiative in the Kantara initiative): http://w3c.github.io/vctf/meetings/2016-01-29-2/
[Tue 11:08:24] <voip-vctf>	bblfish [SIP/sip2sip.info-0000071f] has left the conference.
[Tue 11:08:25] <voip-vctf>	Eric Korb [SIP/sip.linphone.org-00000721] has left the conference.
[Tue 11:08:36] <voip-vctf>	Eric Korb [SIP/sip.linphone.org-00000722] has joined the conference.
[Tue 11:08:44] <ottonomy>	manu: Michael had not had as much time to review it as other folks had, but gave us really good feedback as well, specifically about implementation and different factors associated with the difficulty implementing SAML and OpenID Connect.
[Tue 11:08:44] <voip-vctf>	Eric Korb [SIP/sip.linphone.org-00000722] has left the conference.
[Tue 11:08:52] <voip-vctf>	bblfish [SIP/sip2sip.info-00000723] has joined the conference.
[Tue 11:09:19] <voip-vctf>	bblfish [SIP/sip2sip.info-00000723] has left the conference.
[Tue 11:09:20] <ottonomy>	manu: These interviews are added to the feedback we received from Harry Halpin, David Singer from Apple, and others. We only have 3 interviews left, if those people have time
[Tue 11:09:33] <voip-vctf>	bblfish [SIP/sip2sip.info-00000724] has joined the conference.
[Tue 11:09:52] <ottonomy>	manu: That's what we have so far as far as the interviews are concerned. There are some things that we have consensus on, and others we don't yet.
[Tue 11:10:00] <voip-vctf>	bblfish [SIP/sip2sip.info-00000724] has left the conference.
[Tue 11:10:03] <voip-vctf>	19088126557 [SIP/69.71.222.196-00000725] has joined the conference.
[Tue 11:10:04] <voip-vctf>	bblfish [SIP/sip2sip.info-00000726] has joined the conference.
[Tue 11:10:06] <manu>	http://w3c.github.io/vctf/#problem
[Tue 11:10:12] <ottonomy>	manu: We have consensus on the problem statement generally
[Tue 11:10:31] <voip-vctf>	bblfish [SIP/sip2sip.info-00000726] has left the conference.
[Tue 11:10:45] <voip-vctf>	bblfish [SIP/sip2sip.info-00000727] has joined the conference.
[Tue 11:10:48] <ottonomy>	manu: We have gotten some good advice from Dick Hardt that we shouldn't state it as user centric and service centric (instead talk about privacycentric and privacy enhancing)
[Tue 11:11:05] <ottonomy>	manu: Largely we have broad buy-in to the problem statement. That probably means we can arrange some work around it.
[Tue 11:11:31] <burn>	There may be some control aspects as well implied in our "user-centric" term.
[Tue 11:11:37] <ottonomy>	manu: We also asked the question, where should this work happen? W3C, OASIS, Kintara, IETF? Most folk felt that W3C would be a good place for it, but some of the protocol stuff might be pushed to IETF.
[Tue 11:11:54] <ottonomy>	manu: There was no opinion that the work should not be done.
[Tue 11:12:02] <dlongley>	+1 to burn, some modeling aspects too
[Tue 11:12:43] <ottonomy>	manu: Where we may have disagreement is that the current pieces we have today (Oauth2, OpenID Connect, JOSE), what parts they may play in a final technical solution. We are not at the point of discussing a technical solution yet, so there may be a fair bit of back and forth when we get to that point once we have a working group.
[Tue 11:13:00] <ottonomy>	manu: That is a general summary of what we have done, where we have consensus, and where we may not. Any questions at this point?
[Tue 11:13:15] *	manu matt stone.
[Tue 11:13:29] <ottonomy>	stone: Manu, are you satisfied with the outcome of the interviews?
[Tue 11:13:39] <ottonomy>	manu: We are very satisfied with the outcome of these interviews.
[Tue 11:13:54] *	bblfish has quit (Ping timeout: 180 seconds)
[Tue 11:14:02] *	dlongley notes that there is not consensus on technical solution
[Tue 11:14:21] <ottonomy>	manu: the VCTF (this present group) was chartered to see if there was consensus that there was work to be done. We feel we have done this. We presented this stuff on a call with W3C Staff yesterday and the staff representative was still unconvinced. That is frustrating.
[Tue 11:14:24] *	dlongley but there is consensus that there is a problem (need a standard way to express and share verifiable claims)
[Tue 11:15:28] <ottonomy>	manu: If all the people we talk to in membership feel there is work to be done, W3C is the place to do it, why is there still resistance from w3c? Maybe one strategy is to summarize all the work, package it up, so we don't dump an amount of information that is too much to synthesize.
[Tue 11:15:43] <ottonomy>	manu: The other concern was that if we don't have clear Payments use cases...
[Tue 11:15:45] <voip-vctf>	Wohnzimmer [SIP/192.168.1.16-00000718] has left the conference.
[Tue 11:16:14] <voip-vctf>	Wohnzimmer [SIP/192.168.1.16-00000728] has joined the conference.
[Tue 11:16:40] <dlongley>	q+
[Tue 11:16:40] <voip-vctf>	dlongley has been added to the queue: dlongley
[Tue 11:16:41] <voip-vctf>	Wohnzimmer [SIP/192.168.1.16-00000728] has left the conference.
[Tue 11:16:57] <ottonomy>	manu: A good chunk of the invited experts we interviewed said they don't feel the financial industry will be the first movers on this. They expect the first movers to be the education industry, which we have seen is true. They are organizations that are comfortable with moving and putting in cache. Staff objects that payments should follow, not lead, which opens up a question of who should support this, maybe we should have a workshop (which would set us back a number of months.)
[Tue 11:17:09] <manu>	ack dlongley 
[Tue 11:17:09] <voip-vctf>	dlongley has the floor.
[Tue 11:17:13] <ottonomy>	manu: There are very clear payments use cases: Knowing who's on the other end of a transaction, coupons, loyalty cards...
[Tue 11:17:42] <voip-vctf>	±493048308001 [SIP/192.168.1.16-00000729] has joined the conference.
[Tue 11:17:55] <ottonomy>	dlongley: while they were pushing back saying maybe not the web payments IG as the best palce for for this, if there are clear use cases that may not be primary could still make the IG a good home for the work.
[Tue 11:18:40] <ottonomy>	manu: We must focus on demonstrating that there are clear web payments use cases, make it easy for the Web Payments IG to make a case to the W3C Membership so the W3C doesn't get stuck in an 8-9 month chartering process where a bunch of companies are confused about what makes this separate from OpenID Connect etc.
[Tue 11:18:40] <manu>	Topic: Documents Needed By Web Payments Face-to-Face
[Tue 11:18:59] <ottonomy>	manu: let's jump to the next topic. There were 3 documents that would help prove this case.
[Tue 11:19:29] <ottonomy>	manu: First: a summary pointing to statistics collected, interview outcomes: Here's why the work should be done..
[Tue 11:19:33] <ottonomy>	manu: second: Use cases document
[Tue 11:20:08] <ottonomy>	manu: also: vision document, and maybe draft charter proposal outlining the work that must be done over the next year
[Tue 11:21:52] <ottonomy>	richard: Seems like we keep running into this issue. Maybe we can segment our statements. We have one component: overlap, where we have common tasks addressed in the same way across sectors (one part of a use case). They might also be interested in things that are interdependent&mutually beneficial, but might not be the same solution. 3. as we're deploying stuff that has commonality, the fact that we're building the social fabric in one industry, we
[Tue 11:21:52] <ottonomy>	 varn: built the foundation that makes it possible to use the technology in another industry, like payments.
[Tue 11:22:01] <ottonomy>	richard: ... even if payments is not the first mover.
[Tue 11:22:41] *	BillDeL (~chatzilla@public.cloak) has joined #vctf
[Tue 11:22:48] <ottonomy>	manu: I'm focusing right now on documents we can create in the next three weeks
[Tue 11:23:04] <ottonomy>	richard: Maybe focus on things where we're all aligned
[Tue 11:23:16] <ShaneM>	q+ to mention that the strategu of the use cases was to show overlap
[Tue 11:23:16] <voip-vctf>	ShaneM has been added to the queue: ShaneM
[Tue 11:23:19] <ottonomy>	manu: agree: outline the things that matter to healthcare, finance, other...
[Tue 11:23:22] <ShaneM>	q?
[Tue 11:23:22] <voip-vctf>	The current speaker queue is: ShaneM
[Tue 11:24:16] <ottonomy>	manu: there are other stuff we don't have consensus on -- people are pushing back on the protocol to move credentials around, which we clearly need to build the ecosystem.  The thing the working group would focus on is the spec that underlays the ecosystem: ("if you want to express a credential on the web, this is how you do it")
[Tue 11:24:21] *	dlongley doing a browser API is also likely to demonstrate a good reason to do it at W3C
[Tue 11:24:23] <voip-vctf>	David I. Lehn [SIP/6003-0000072a] has joined the conference.
[Tue 11:24:26] <voip-vctf>	David I. Lehn [SIP/6003-0000072a] has left the conference.
[Tue 11:24:27] <ottonomy>	manu: We're trying to focus down on just the stuff that we know there is broad agreement on.
[Tue 11:24:33] <voip-vctf>	David I. Lehn [SIP/6003-0000072b] has joined the conference.
[Tue 11:24:37] <manu>	ack ShaneM 
[Tue 11:24:38] <voip-vctf>	ShaneM has the floor (to mention that the strategu of the use cases was to show overlap).
[Tue 11:24:41] <ottonomy>	manu: If we do that by the end of February, there is a good chance the IG will push this forward.
[Tue 11:24:50] <voip-vctf>	David I. Lehn [SIP/6003-0000072b] has left the conference.
[Tue 11:25:25] <voip-vctf>	David I. Lehn [SIP/6003-0000072e] has joined the conference.
[Tue 11:25:29] <dlongley>	david ezell (chair of web payments IG) more or less said: "If there are 12 use cases and only 2 are payments use cases, we could still push the work"
[Tue 11:25:38] <ottonomy>	ShaneM: want to push back on the concept a bit that we want to bury the extended use cases. I've been wanting to percolate the some small number of requirements that are backed up by use cases that multiple industries nee.
[Tue 11:25:58] <ottonomy>	ShaneM: I don't want to lose that important data about all the other industries we're going to help at the same time.
[Tue 11:26:42] <ShaneM>	no objection to prioritizing things out.  archiutectural view is important.
[Tue 11:27:01] <ottonomy>	manu: This is exactly what happened in the Web Payments use cases: We had 130 use cases, of which much fewer were specifically targeted. We had a huge number of use cases to paint a picture of where we're going, but they didn't have a specific point on the timeline.
[Tue 11:27:17] <ottonomy>	manu: I raised that perspective and we got a lot of pushback from Ian (W3C Management)
[Tue 11:27:47] <ottonomy>	manu: If folks remember, we were getting pushed off for starting this task force last year, and the membership overrulled management above minor objections that it was too early to start.
[Tue 11:28:08] <ottonomy>	manu: It's good to hear staff perspective because they have a lot of experience dealing with the management, but sometimes they're too risk-averse.
[Tue 11:29:00] <ottonomy>	manu: Best thing we can do right now is convince the 127 individuals in the Web Payments IG that this work is worth doing. Make it very clear what that data is saying. We have use cases, we have an idea on a charter. If we can do that by the end of Feb, we stand a good chance of moving this to the next step, of seeing whether the membership wants to approve a charter.
[Tue 11:29:14] *	bblfish (~bblfish@public.cloak) has joined #vctf
[Tue 11:30:46] <ShaneM>	Note that there is nothing terribly unusual about how long this is taking.  That doesn't make it any less frustrating.
[Tue 11:30:49] <ottonomy>	manu: One more parting thought: The whole reason we went through the Web Payments IG on this was that the Credentials work had spun out of the Web Payments (at the time) Community Group, and we thought it would take less time to do this VCTF than to do a workshop and go through the standard W3C process. At this point it seems like the two approaches would have taken about the same amount of time, with a caveat: Identity on the web has a huge long history
[Tue 11:30:50] <ottonomy>	 manu: of partial successess and partial failures, and it's because of that we're being slowed down. Know for certain we've gathered way more data than a workshop on this sort of stuff usually gathers.
[Tue 11:31:10] <ottonomy>	manu: If the Web Payments IG sees what we're doing and agrees with it, it will have been a good decision to have gone this way.
[Tue 11:31:43] <ottonomy>	ShaneM: It doesn't make it seem less like we're pushing a boulder up a hill only to have it roll back down, but doesn't mean we take our marbles somewhere else.
[Tue 11:31:52] <manu>	Topic: Verifiable Claims Task Force Final Report
[Tue 11:31:56] <ottonomy>	manu: Let's talk about the documents.
[Tue 11:31:57] <manu>	https://docs.google.com/document/d/1dYup3KC2nak3LVTzyapr996TKxDj1w5Eyp4g13rQQBA/edit
[Tue 11:32:26] <ottonomy>	manu: I've started filling out the document general structure and themes
[Tue 11:33:09] <voip-vctf>	±493048308001 [SIP/192.168.1.16-00000729] has left the conference.
[Tue 11:33:11] <ottonomy>	manu: Second page we have a bulleted summary of findings
[Tue 11:33:46] <voip-vctf>	±493048308001 [SIP/192.168.1.16-0000072f] has joined the conference.
[Tue 11:33:58] <ottonomy>	manu: page three, we break this up into topics we have consensus on, and topics where there may be potential pitfalls (topics we have not been able to dig into deeply enough yet at this phase to see if there is consensus, but concerns have been raised)
[Tue 11:34:13] <voip-vctf>	±493048308001 [SIP/192.168.1.16-0000072f] has left the conference.
[Tue 11:34:43] <voip-vctf>	±493048308001 [SIP/192.168.1.16-00000730] has joined the conference.
[Tue 11:34:43] <ottonomy>	manu: This is where we want to hear feedback from the folks who are in each industry. Richard, Matt, John Tibbetts, that's where we'd want to hear a response to "there's no case for using this in ___industry___"
[Tue 11:35:10] <voip-vctf>	±493048308001 [SIP/192.168.1.16-00000730] has left the conference.
[Tue 11:35:12] <ottonomy>	manu: Clearly people who are at large billion dollar businesses will be prioritized to get responses in this section
[Tue 11:35:19] <burn>	q+
[Tue 11:35:19] <voip-vctf>	burn has been added to the queue: burn
[Tue 11:35:29] <ottonomy>	ShaneM: question: I know there's a couple interviews left to do -- what's the timeline on a solid draft of this document?
[Tue 11:36:05] <ottonomy>	manu: We're not going to wait for those interviews -- we'll let them know we'd love to talk to them, and we'll incorporate feedback when we can talk to them, but we're not going to wait. We contacted them three times. Hoping to have a final draft by the 12th.
[Tue 11:36:14] <ottonomy>	manu: Going to be presented on the 22nd of Feb
[Tue 11:36:26] <ottonomy>	ShaneM: I assume you want the use cases document solid by then as well?
[Tue 11:36:29] <voip-vctf>	±493048308001 [SIP/192.168.1.16-00000731] has joined the conference.
[Tue 11:36:37] *	dlongley remaining interviews are with Vint Cerf (father of the internet), Tim Berners-Lee (inventor of the Web), and Brad Jones (lead spec editor for OpenID Connect) ... they may be too busy to find interview time.
[Tue 11:36:39] <manu>	ack burn
[Tue 11:36:39] <voip-vctf>	burn has the floor.
[Tue 11:36:49] <ottonomy>	manu: Yes, solid = "in some shape we can present it to the Web Payments IG" May be in draft form still, but presentable.
[Tue 11:37:21] <dlongley>	+1 burn, user centric is about more than just privacy
[Tue 11:37:30] <ottonomy>	burn: You got one piece of feedback that privacy-enhancing is better than user-centric and the "privacy-enhancing" term appears in this draft, many in the group think there is more meant by "user-centric" than the narrower term.
[Tue 11:38:06] <ottonomy>	manu: you are correct, put back "user centric" and added a note that someone has suggested "privacy-enhancing"
[Tue 11:38:20] <dlongley>	q+ better thing to do would be enumerate, specifically, the attributes we mean by user-centric
[Tue 11:38:20] <voip-vctf>	dlongley has been added to the queue: dlongley
[Tue 11:38:35] <ottonomy>	manu: many people said "user-centric" is problematic because the openId work has coopted the term to mean something different than what is meant in this group
[Tue 11:39:39] <ottonomy>	manu: For example, when we talked to Mike Schwartz, "user centric is problematic because OpenID already does that, cuts the legs out from your justification" "It doesn't matter what the dictionary definition is -- of credential -- that's what professionals in teh security community thinks it means"
[Tue 11:39:42] <dlongley>	q-
[Tue 11:39:42] <voip-vctf>	dlongley has been removed from the queue:
[Tue 11:40:28] <ottonomy>	manu: Argument that Dick Hardt made that was convincing was that if you focus on privacy-enhancing, the user-centric aspects happen naturally
[Tue 11:40:29] <dlongley>	there was also "self-sovereign" terminology
[Tue 11:40:35] <dlongley>	brought up by Christopher Allen
[Tue 11:41:00] <ottonomy>	Richard: three main pillars: knowledge, consent, & choice; been working on privacy and policy statements around these three things in commerce software.
[Tue 11:41:35] <ottonomy>	Richard: privacy-enhancing user-centrism is cool, but the pillars are how the system is designed, and these adjectives then describe it.
[Tue 11:41:42] <stone>	+1
[Tue 11:41:49] <manu>	q+ to note that bulleted lists weren't read :)
[Tue 11:41:49] <voip-vctf>	manu has been added to the queue: manu
[Tue 11:42:14] <manu>	ack manu
[Tue 11:42:14] <voip-vctf>	manu has the floor (to note that bulleted lists weren't read :)).
[Tue 11:42:22] <ottonomy>	dlongley: We also go down and list exactly what we mean by user-centric and privacy-enhancing. I don't think we want to use the other things we mean by user-centric, analyze them and see whether there is a different term that is not coopted
[Tue 11:42:47] <ottonomy>	manu: Here's the issue with the bulleted list: Nobody read them. It became very clear that interviewees started talking about user-centric without leading the list
[Tue 11:43:05] <ottonomy>	dlongley: Seeing a new term (other than user-centric) might make it more likely that they would look at the supporting documentation
[Tue 11:43:26] <ottonomy>	manu: Let's think about it over the next week. Send good fresh ideas to the mailing list
[Tue 11:43:48] <ottonomy>	manu: We'll touch base on this next week to see if we can find something not as problematic as "user-centric"
[Tue 11:43:53] <manu>	Topic: Use Cases Document
[Tue 11:43:56] <ottonomy>	manu: Will take action to drive that document forward
[Tue 11:44:18] <ottonomy>	manu: excellent work from ShaneM ,burn , and __ to get that document into shape
[Tue 11:44:22] <manu>	http://opencreds.org/specs/source/use-cases/
[Tue 11:44:50] <ottonomy>	ShaneM: We've migrated the document into ReSpec, coalescing the data from the original version of the CG use cases document, pulling from multiple use case drafts.
[Tue 11:45:23] <ottonomy>	ShaneM: three of us working on it, dividing by section so we don't stomp on toes. We're trying to put these use cases together as scenarios that support specific requirements.
[Tue 11:46:00] *	bsletten has quit (Ping timeout: 180 seconds)
[Tue 11:46:02] <ottonomy>	ShaneM: Hopefully also synthesizing the motivation for each case, so people understand the motivation for each requirement. We'll go through a quick cycle of prioritizing things: Initially, Someday, etc. Gut feel reactions from editors at the moment.
[Tue 11:46:14] <ottonomy>	manu: How paralellizable is the work right now?
[Tue 11:46:25] <ottonomy>	ShaneM: Working very well, don't think we can divide it any further
[Tue 11:46:33] <ottonomy>	manu: Do you think we'll be done by the 12th?
[Tue 11:46:50] <ottonomy>	ShaneM: Will survey editors after this call to see how they feel about it and redistribute effort if necessary.
[Tue 11:46:56] <ottonomy>	manu: Any questions on where we are on use cases?
[Tue 11:47:15] <ottonomy>	manu: Thanks a ton Shane and other editors for moving this forward. It's looking good. You've made a lot of progress over the last week
[Tue 11:47:17] <manu>	Topic: Draft Charter Proposal
[Tue 11:47:24] <manu>	http://w3c.github.io/vctf/charter/proposal.html
[Tue 11:48:00] <ottonomy>	manu: We've got some pushback on presenting this at the face to face meeting from the w3c staff contact. VCTF pushed back on that saying "we need to get something in front of people so they can see what we're doing"
[Tue 11:48:14] <ottonomy>	manu: Where we have consensus so far is in data format data model in expressing verifiable claims.
[Tue 11:48:22] *	bsletten (~bsletten@public.cloak) has joined #vctf
[Tue 11:48:54] <ottonomy>	manu: many have objected that this is not very useful unless there is a protocol for how you deliver, request, and store a credential
[Tue 11:49:51] <ottonomy>	manu: In the interim we can submit a "W3C Membership Note": "while we're getting consensus on this current scope, X proposed protocol is what a number of organizations are deploying because they can't implement without a protocol and can't wait for the W3C and we expect the W3C to pick up this protocol at a later date"
[Tue 11:50:27] <ottonomy>	manu: estimated 18 months to get data format to W3C Rec status, and we may even start protocol work before the data format group work is wrapped up
[Tue 11:51:22] <ottonomy>	manu: Any company on the call pushing a solutilon into the market that needs a W3C standard stamp on the protocol? Or are folks comfortable implementing something that doesn't have the stamp on it
[Tue 11:51:27] <bblfish>	q+
[Tue 11:51:27] <voip-vctf>	bblfish has been added to the queue: bblfish
[Tue 11:51:28] <ottonomy>	q+
[Tue 11:51:28] <voip-vctf>	ottonomy has been added to the queue: bblfish, ottonomy
[Tue 11:51:41] <ottonomy>	stone: We're hearing from our user base that this topic is important
[Tue 11:51:56] <voip-vctf>	±493048308001 [SIP/192.168.1.16-00000731] has left the conference.
[Tue 11:52:12] <bblfish>	q-
[Tue 11:52:12] <voip-vctf>	bblfish has been removed from the queue: ottonomy
[Tue 11:52:19] <ottonomy>	manu: would it be enough if you could point to official work on data format this already happening. Would those stakeholders feel ok with your commitment to standards in that case?
[Tue 11:52:37] <ottonomy>	stone: One of the reasons we're so interested in the success of this group: we're promising that we're contributing..
[Tue 11:52:39] <manu>	ack ottonomy 
[Tue 11:52:39] <voip-vctf>	ottonomy has the floor.
[Tue 11:52:46] <erkorb_rm>	Accreditrust is pushing for a solution for standard from this group
[Tue 11:53:22] <voip-vctf>	±493048308001 [SIP/192.168.1.16-00000732] has joined the conference.
[Tue 11:53:27] <manu>	ottonomy: Badge Alliance Community, we also need a protocol - the one that was divised in 2012 - the one that came out of Mozilla - sending/requesting badges - the same sort of problems that are expected in the protocol work you're talking about - just Friday Mozilla made efforts to release more of ecosystem to community control.
[Tue 11:53:47] <erkorb_rm>	stone, +1
[Tue 11:53:49] <bblfish>	q+
[Tue 11:53:49] <voip-vctf>	bblfish has been added to the queue: bblfish
[Tue 11:53:56] <manu>	ottonomy: We're going to need to work on this protocol sooner than later - adopting something from W3C would be good - if it was official W3C work as opposed to an alternative to the Mozilla protocol.
[Tue 11:54:16] <manu>	ottonomy: We do need to move pretty fast - we need a replacement protocol pretty soon with modifications to Mozilla protocol as a polyfill.
[Tue 11:54:57] <ottonomy>	manu: We can certainly work through the technical protocol in the CG and submit a member submission pretty quickly, but it wouldn't mean much
[Tue 11:55:34] <manu>	ottonomy: I think the best course of action is to maintain a good idea of where proposals are in the standardization process. We don't want to align with something that's headed down a different track.
[Tue 11:55:39] <manu>	ack bblfish 
[Tue 11:55:39] <voip-vctf>	bblfish has the floor.
[Tue 11:55:42] <bblfish>	https://www.w3.org/TR/ldp/
[Tue 11:56:02] <bblfish>	https://www.w3.org/wiki/WebAccessControl
[Tue 11:57:03] <ottonomy>	bblfish: There is the LDP work which is a protocol standard, but they never added authentication to it. There is a web access control thing people have implemented that can be added to that, which allows you to authenticate with any kinds of means (OpenID, Web Signature). There might be something that could be done in parallel. If the credentials work works with it, perhaps that could be tied in and completed at the same time.
[Tue 11:58:35] <ottonomy>	manu: We've looked at LDP, the issue has been that some of the protocol is expected to be built into the browser (a credential management API)... that does malware/site checking, authorization. The LDP stuff is really good for automated credential exchange that happens behind the scenes. LDP would be one way to ship these credentials back and forth. That's why in the first phase of the work we propose just expressing the credential.
[Tue 11:58:55] <stone>	q+
[Tue 11:58:55] <voip-vctf>	stone has been added to the queue: stone
[Tue 11:59:23] <ottonomy>	manu: some of our feedback from invited experts is that you shouldn't try to "pick a winner" protocol, because this stuff might be reused in other/multiple protcol.s
[Tue 11:59:58] <ottonomy>	manu: Because some of concerns, because LDP might work for some use cases, they specifically might not work for some education partners.
[Tue 12:00:05] <manu>	ack stone 
[Tue 12:00:08] <voip-vctf>	stone has the floor.
[Tue 12:00:29] <ottonomy>	bblfish: Would be interesting to get some feedback on what those concerns were, LDP is working to adapt
[Tue 12:00:54] <ottonomy>	stone: Seems like the last few minutes is mixing concerns from VCTF and the Community Group work that had been working on this bigger vision
[Tue 12:01:12] <erkorb_rm>	stone, +1
[Tue 12:01:23] <ShaneM>	+1
[Tue 12:01:25] <ottonomy>	manu: Agreed, that sounds like very good input. As the task force wraps up around the end of this month, we'll start CG calls again and get back into that.
[Tue 12:01:33] <bblfish>	yes, agree. I was just responding to the concern that some people expressed that they may need a protocol with a W3C stamp of approval to move their work forward in their company
[Tue 12:01:43] <voip-vctf>	Present+ taaz, hofman, gkellogg, trainer, delorenzo

