[2021-04-20T16:00:40.240Z]	<mprorock>	static as well
[2021-04-20T16:01:21.429Z]	<heathervescent>	present+
[2021-04-20T16:01:23.840Z]	<mprorock>	present+
[2021-04-20T16:01:25.687Z]	<TallTed>	present+
[2021-04-20T16:01:31.041Z]	<GeunHyung_Kim>	present+
[2021-04-20T16:01:31.092Z]	<markus_sabadello>	present+
[2021-04-20T16:01:33.376Z]	<pete_M>	present+
[2021-04-20T16:01:41.055Z]	<chriswinc>	present+
[2021-04-20T16:01:58.890Z]	<cel>	present+
[2021-04-20T16:01:59.535Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	present+
[2021-04-20T16:02:07.249Z]	<Jeff_Stephens>	present+
[2021-04-20T16:02:08.916Z]	<dlongley>	present+
[2021-04-20T16:02:16.191Z]	<Robert_Long>	present+
[2021-04-20T16:02:49.946Z]	<Kim>	Agenda: https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-credentials/2021Apr/0109.html
[2021-04-20T16:02:52.946Z]	<Kim>	https://www.w3.org/community/credentials/join
[2021-04-20T16:02:58.329Z]	<bengo>	present+
[2021-04-20T16:03:03.800Z]	<Kim>	https://www.w3.org/accounts/request
[2021-04-20T16:03:15.454Z]	<Kim>	https://www.w3.org/community/about/agreements/cla/
[2021-04-20T16:03:31.520Z]	<Kim>	https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/
[2021-04-20T16:03:50.599Z]	<Kim>	present+
[2021-04-20T16:03:51.185Z]	<JoeAndrieu>	present+
[2021-04-20T16:03:59.525Z]	<dmitriz>	present+
[2021-04-20T16:04:07.927Z]	<Kim>	q+
[2021-04-20T16:04:11.140Z]	<Kim>	ack Kim
[2021-04-20T16:04:58.857Z]	<pete_M>	i can scribe
[2021-04-20T16:05:12.475Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	thank you kim for your years of service to the community!!
[2021-04-20T16:05:16.363Z]	<Kim>	scribe: pete_M
[2021-04-20T16:05:32.655Z]	<Kim>	Topic: Introductions & Reintroductions
[2021-04-20T16:05:34.826Z]	<heathervescent>	Thanks Kim. We'll miss your leadership and deep knowlege of github! LOL
[2021-04-20T16:05:40.396Z]	<pete_M>	Kim: Topic: Introductions and Reintroductions
[2021-04-20T16:05:41.444Z]	<kdenhartog>	present+
[2021-04-20T16:05:42.346Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	Thank you Kim! May you Chair retire happily into the sunset!
[2021-04-20T16:05:46.146Z]	<kdenhartog>	q+
[2021-04-20T16:05:59.697Z]	<Kim>	ack kdenhartog
[2021-04-20T16:06:33.441Z]	<Juan_Caballero_(DIF/Spherity)>	i knew it!
[2021-04-20T16:06:53.540Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	Juan knows the tech secrets... had no idea that Zoom stole the mic!
[2021-04-20T16:07:08.449Z]	<Kim>	q?
[2021-04-20T16:07:17.979Z]	<Juan_Caballero_(DIF/Spherity)>	(i was in the same IIW session so I had a hunch)
[2021-04-20T16:07:21.252Z]	<George_L_(HMG)>	present+
[2021-04-20T16:07:29.962Z]	<Orie>	no mattr when you set a meeting, its a bad time for someone ; )
[2021-04-20T16:07:30.101Z]	<mkhraisha>	present+
[2021-04-20T16:08:43.907Z]	<pete_M>	Kim: Ive been CCG chair for a few years, about to move on from the position... I should also mention that we need a new chair
[2021-04-20T16:09:16.045Z]	<pete_M>	Kim: been working with Dept. Education for wallets and wallet interop
[2021-04-20T16:09:22.181Z]	<Kim>	q?
[2021-04-20T16:09:39.792Z]	<Kim>	Topic: Announcements & Reminders
[2021-04-20T16:10:06.459Z]	<heathervescent>	Manu: do you want to announce the call later in the week?
[2021-04-20T16:10:13.879Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	yes, please.
[2021-04-20T16:10:16.390Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	q+
[2021-04-20T16:10:26.566Z]	<pete_M>	Kim: IIW... its currently going on right now, where a lot of us will be. This is the weekly CCG call Tues 9AM PDT
[2021-04-20T16:10:39.708Z]	<markus_sabadello>	FYI we told the IIW crowd that this call here is happening, so they are aware.
[2021-04-20T16:11:20.589Z]	<Kim>	ack manu
[2021-04-20T16:11:23.098Z]	<Kim>	q?
[2021-04-20T16:11:24.928Z]	<heathervescent>	:-)
[2021-04-20T16:12:06.647Z]	<pete_M>	Manu_Sporny: today will be a quick overview of VC-HTTP-API, but we might need to continue Thursday
[2021-04-20T16:12:18.237Z]	<heathervescent>	Announcement of the Special Topics Call: https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-credentials/2021Apr/0120.html
[2021-04-20T16:12:43.449Z]	<pete_M>	Kim: Topic: Progress on Action Items
[2021-04-20T16:12:45.638Z]	<Kim>	Topic: Progress on Action Items
[2021-04-20T16:12:54.821Z]	<Kim>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/community/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3A%22action%3A+review+next%22
[2021-04-20T16:13:37.944Z]	<pete_M>	Kim: Next steps from SOLID meeting, Heather would you like to speak for this?
[2021-04-20T16:14:28.006Z]	<pete_M>	heathervescent: the idea was we had 2 sets of SOLID meetings, an intro, and further discussions are still ongoing
[2021-04-20T16:14:36.145Z]	<heathervescent>	Sarven
[2021-04-20T16:14:56.626Z]	<pete_M>	heathervescent: Sarven is the person I've been coordinating with for SOLID cohesion
[2021-04-20T16:15:27.932Z]	<kimhd>	q?
[2021-04-20T16:15:35.728Z]	<pete_M>	heathervescent: the community has a lot of interest, but we have been figuring out how to practically work together
[2021-04-20T16:16:20.376Z]	<pete_M>	heathervescent: there is group overlap, but the CCG has been really busy so the SOLID work items have been placed on the backburner
[2021-04-20T16:16:34.698Z]	<pete_M>	heathervescent: I'd welcome any additional help coordinating
[2021-04-20T16:16:52.409Z]	<dmitriz>	+1, yeah, we've been encouraging the Solid CG to join the Conf Storage group
[2021-04-20T16:17:05.190Z]	<pete_M>	Kim: We might have an opportunity to work with Confidential storage... Dimitri are you here?
[2021-04-20T16:17:49.574Z]	<pete_M>	Kim: proposed to close this next week, if no objection?
[2021-04-20T16:18:05.642Z]	<pete_M>	heathervescent: im fine with closing, but this is the only place we are tracking it
[2021-04-20T16:18:23.194Z]	<heathervescent>	(sorry, I didn't mean to skip the queue)
[2021-04-20T16:18:26.307Z]	<pete_M>	heathervescent: maybe mark it "low" priority for later instead
[2021-04-20T16:18:36.228Z]	<Kim>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/community/issues/181
[2021-04-20T16:18:46.373Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	q+
[2021-04-20T16:18:53.069Z]	<dwc>	present+
[2021-04-20T16:18:54.552Z]	<heathervescent>	q+
[2021-04-20T16:19:02.401Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	q+
[2021-04-20T16:19:09.917Z]	<pete_M>	Kim: VC maintenence... who are the chairs of the VC maintenance group?
[2021-04-20T16:19:14.875Z]	<Kim>	ack Wayne
[2021-04-20T16:19:15.343Z]	<heathervescent>	q-
[2021-04-20T16:19:20.918Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	ack Man
[2021-04-20T16:19:46.127Z]	<Kim>	q?
[2021-04-20T16:19:52.764Z]	<pete_M>	Wayne_Chang: once a merge happens we will be releasing the specs
[2021-04-20T16:19:54.446Z]	<heathervescent>	q+
[2021-04-20T16:20:09.111Z]	<kimhd>	ack heathervescent
[2021-04-20T16:20:16.544Z]	<pete_M>	heathervescent: wayne, do you have a time frame? can we get an update?
[2021-04-20T16:21:05.549Z]	<pete_M>	Wayne_Chang: do you mean a timeline for the PR or the 2nd spec?
[2021-04-20T16:22:04.149Z]	<pete_M>	heathervescent: this stems from February ... I'd appreciate a timeframe for when actions will be taken
[2021-04-20T16:22:13.819Z]	<Kim>	Topic: Vc-http-api concerns and scope
[2021-04-20T16:22:21.575Z]	<pete_M>	Wayne_Chang: will do, thanks
[2021-04-20T16:22:26.279Z]	<Kim>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/community/issues/190
[2021-04-20T16:23:20.369Z]	<Juan_Caballero_(DIF/Spherity)>	refreshing the page periodically "resets" the memory leakage in Google Chrome, I find
[2021-04-20T16:23:21.263Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/17FcR-KRv6klDff-A56nv7wz1OtcQDxvO4qosuQAmMRo/edit
[2021-04-20T16:23:31.861Z]	<Juan_Caballero_(DIF/Spherity)>	^ privvies?
[2021-04-20T16:23:39.103Z]	<TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLink_Softwa>	jitsi screenshares spike CPU and fan for some (including me) but that shouldn't be a blocker on my account
[2021-04-20T16:23:41.622Z]	<Orie>	lets just run the deck
[2021-04-20T16:23:46.590Z]	<pete_M>	Manu_Sporny: ive sent a PDF to the mailing list
[2021-04-20T16:23:55.925Z]	<heathervescent>	I recently rebooted everything, so I'm probably fine.
[2021-04-20T16:23:57.447Z]	<Orie>	we should reward folks who do work outside of meetings! thanks manu
[2021-04-20T16:24:05.336Z]	<pete_M>	Kim: maybe lets start there . . .
[2021-04-20T16:24:26.669Z]	<Orie>	yees
[2021-04-20T16:24:32.627Z]	<Juan_Caballero_(DIF/Spherity)>	i see the left half :D
[2021-04-20T16:24:50.490Z]	<Juan_Caballero_(DIF/Spherity)>	nice!
[2021-04-20T16:25:08.588Z]	<pete_M>	Manu_Sporny: VC-HTTP-API is meant to enable system2system flows
[2021-04-20T16:25:38.827Z]	<pete_M>	... we might only cover the first part, the proposal and challenges are meant for Thursday discussion
[2021-04-20T16:26:07.241Z]	<pete_M>	... this is just my take on the problem statement, which came from a desire to issue and verify data in the VC ecosystem
[2021-04-20T16:26:14.864Z]	<Orie>	q+
[2021-04-20T16:26:23.458Z]	<pete_M>	... not customer facing, Back of house server2server
[2021-04-20T16:26:32.181Z]	<Orie>	I don't agree with the problem statement
[2021-04-20T16:27:00.177Z]	<Kim>	ack Orie
[2021-04-20T16:27:01.188Z]	<pete_M>	... there is disagreement with what this does
[2021-04-20T16:27:01.637Z]	<Kristina>	EU seems to have VC issuing API https://ec.europa.eu/cefdigital/wiki/display/CEFDIGITALEBSI/Verifiable+Credential+API
[2021-04-20T16:27:10.701Z]	<Kristina>	though it returns un-signed VCs
[2021-04-20T16:27:21.642Z]	<mprorock>	+1 orie - this is part of the problem statement, but not the whole picture
[2021-04-20T16:27:41.240Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	q+
[2021-04-20T16:27:55.840Z]	<pete_M>	Orie: i agree that this is an effective description for the community, but this API isn't only for internal use. That might be a bad description
[2021-04-20T16:28:14.885Z]	<pete_M>	Kim: maybe we can forward this discussion for later, but Manu please reply
[2021-04-20T16:28:56.880Z]	<pete_M>	Manu_Sporny: this diagram is only one iteration of architecture
[2021-04-20T16:29:26.455Z]	<pete_M>	... this is where the disagreement is, "is it only a back end API, or should it be more in front?"
[2021-04-20T16:30:00.350Z]	<pete_M>	... digital wallet, website has a credential, you authenticate, then you get a VC. We assume youre in a browser
[2021-04-20T16:30:11.730Z]	<pete_M>	... in the backend, that website has to create the credential in some way
[2021-04-20T16:30:59.548Z]	<Anil_John>	q+ re:Origin/Intent of this API from the DHS/SVIP Perspective
[2021-04-20T16:31:02.099Z]	<Kim>	I will bring this up later, but I don't see why this work item should preclude external use,  with appropriate auth or other prerequisites.
[2021-04-20T16:31:12.878Z]	<Kim>	ack Manu_Sporny,
[2021-04-20T16:31:16.361Z]	<mprorock>	q?
[2021-04-20T16:31:17.156Z]	<Orie>	Enterprise API integrations are not in the browser, supply chain EDI isn't done by hand clicking buttons in html... this is another challenge
[2021-04-20T16:31:17.978Z]	<Kim>	Manu_Sporny
[2021-04-20T16:31:28.217Z]	<pete_M>	... VC-HTTP-API would be used with the Issuer and Verifier
[2021-04-20T16:31:36.146Z]	<Kim>	ack Anil_John
[2021-04-20T16:32:38.322Z]	<Nikos_Fotiou>	why a verifier would want to talk with to application backend?
[2021-04-20T16:33:35.701Z]	<pete_M>	Anil_John: in the past, we have been locked into an API. Internal vs External was not a concern. But for some use cases there might be exposure to the broader ecosystem
[2021-04-20T16:33:35.729Z]	<Kim>	q?
[2021-04-20T16:33:38.936Z]	<Orie>	@Nikos not sure I follow your question, but certainly some verifiers may want to have encrypted messages routed to them in back channel
[2021-04-20T16:33:41.277Z]	<dmitriz>	@Nikos - it's optional. But some verifiers (in resource- or connection-restrained contexts) don't have the ability to verify stuff themselves. so they reach out to a backend
[2021-04-20T16:33:45.012Z]	<Kim>	ack Manu_Sporny
[2021-04-20T16:34:06.887Z]	<pete_M>	Manu_Sporny: as Anil said, the origin of the VC-HTTP-API was to demonstrate true interop
[2021-04-20T16:34:47.122Z]	<pete_M>	... we have run tests against multiple vendor platforms which helped us see the grand picture
[2021-04-20T16:35:08.854Z]	<Kim>	Shout out to Anil for prompting this interop suite to happen, and to Orie for doing test suite heavy lifting (github activity tells me).
[2021-04-20T16:35:23.243Z]	<Juan_Caballero_(DIF/Spherity)>	+1
[2021-04-20T16:35:31.428Z]	<pete_M>	... as Orie mentions, there are other use cases that vendors need to demonstrate, like Enterprise APIs
[2021-04-20T16:35:43.442Z]	<markus_sabadello>	q+
[2021-04-20T16:35:47.102Z]	<Orie>	Interestingly on this previous slide... to see "signing presentations" grouped under issuance
[2021-04-20T16:35:58.148Z]	<Orie>	thats another part of the troubles
[2021-04-20T16:36:03.216Z]	<Kim>	This is the most valuable demonstration of interop of these standards I've seen to date, and sets a great precedent
[2021-04-20T16:36:08.925Z]	<Kim>	q?
[2021-04-20T16:36:22.234Z]	<Juan_Caballero_(DIF/Spherity)>	let's not call them "the troubles" no one's using carbombs
[2021-04-20T16:36:48.311Z]	<Anil_John>	It is important to note that it is not just about interop testing... but about having API abstraction layer over a particular vendor implemenatation that ensures interop.
[2021-04-20T16:37:05.554Z]	<Orie>	Amazing how easy it is to make fake certificates when there is no security turned on.
[2021-04-20T16:37:21.281Z]	<Anil_John>	Having the this abstraction level API very much helps with Interop testing, as one may imagine!
[2021-04-20T16:37:23.042Z]	<mprorock>	+1 anil - this provides a common interface across implementations
[2021-04-20T16:37:25.700Z]	<Kim>	+1 Anil, but I do want to call out what impressive work this is before we crap all over it
[2021-04-20T16:37:34.618Z]	<Anil_John>	LOL
[2021-04-20T16:37:37.739Z]	<pete_M>	... the API just started out as an OPEN API Spec, no uses cases, no spec documents, no documented data flows, no document structure agreement, no lead editor
[2021-04-20T16:37:54.192Z]	<markus_sabadello>	q-
[2021-04-20T16:37:57.347Z]	<Juan_Caballero_(DIF/Spherity)>	Yes!
[2021-04-20T16:37:59.456Z]	<Kim>	q?
[2021-04-20T16:38:02.280Z]	<pete_M>	... now, we need to make progress.
[2021-04-20T16:38:06.399Z]	<heathervescent>	The SVIP demo day was impressive & I've been planning to bring some of those presentations to the CCG.
[2021-04-20T16:38:07.360Z]	<Juan_Caballero_(DIF/Spherity)>	q+
[2021-04-20T16:38:09.974Z]	<markus_sabadello>	q+
[2021-04-20T16:38:17.986Z]	<Kim>	ack Juan_Caballero_(DIF/Spherity)
[2021-04-20T16:38:36.288Z]	<Orie>	also, for folks who are not used to my humer, I am friendly, I think humor is motivating
[2021-04-20T16:38:37.941Z]	<pete_M>	Juan_Caballero_(DIF/Spherity): want to +1 that last slide, its really hard to know where to start
[2021-04-20T16:38:39.839Z]	<heathervescent>	q+
[2021-04-20T16:38:57.088Z]	<Kim>	q+
[2021-04-20T16:39:35.122Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	q+
[2021-04-20T16:39:43.725Z]	<pete_M>	Kim: Manu you mentioned a call later in the week, we are not expecting a solution today. But is the idea to start a conversation here?
[2021-04-20T16:39:44.122Z]	<Orie>	+1 to announcing the regular call time, and using the regular call to dive deep
[2021-04-20T16:39:55.672Z]	<Kim>	airing of grievances!
[2021-04-20T16:39:56.441Z]	<mprorock>	open question - scope of VC-HTTP-API - is it just issue / verify? or is it all operations related to VCs?
[2021-04-20T16:40:05.742Z]	<pete_M>	Manu_Sporny: yes I think so. This is for concerns to be put on the table before the thursday call
[2021-04-20T16:40:25.291Z]	<Kim>	ack markus_sabadello
[2021-04-20T16:40:28.587Z]	<pete_M>	... community really needs to decide how they would like to work for these problems
[2021-04-20T16:40:59.297Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	q+ to suggest scope of VC HTTP API...
[2021-04-20T16:41:07.927Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	q-
[2021-04-20T16:41:21.886Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	q+ to discuss scope of VC HTTP API
[2021-04-20T16:41:45.355Z]	<Kim>	ack heathervescent
[2021-04-20T16:42:00.764Z]	<pete_M>	heathervescent: we should look at the context of "how to solve this"
[2021-04-20T16:42:02.393Z]	<Kim>	/me I just noticed Manu and MArkus have the same monogram
[2021-04-20T16:42:41.862Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	Twins, separated at birth... one growing up in the rough and rabble USA... the other in the cultured EU.
[2021-04-20T16:42:43.111Z]	<pete_M>	... the work has been done in the open of the CGG but with another group
[2021-04-20T16:42:57.268Z]	<Anil_John>	+q
[2021-04-20T16:43:06.210Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	ack man
[2021-04-20T16:43:16.522Z]	<Juan_Caballero_(DIF/Spherity)>	q?
[2021-04-20T16:43:28.367Z]	<pete_M>	... there have not been jumping off points which are easy for the community to join in on
[2021-04-20T16:43:35.650Z]	<Kim>	q
[2021-04-20T16:43:37.116Z]	<Orie>	+1 heather, there was essentially no way to engage the community on this work item.
[2021-04-20T16:43:42.306Z]	<Kim>	q?
[2021-04-20T16:43:50.947Z]	<pete_M>	... educating the broader community is important
[2021-04-20T16:44:06.008Z]	<Juan_Caballero_(DIF/Spherity)>	huge thanks to mike prorock for starting the 101 ball rolling!
[2021-04-20T16:44:11.868Z]	<Kim>	ack Kim
[2021-04-20T16:44:26.673Z]	<mprorock>	101 is all heather :)
[2021-04-20T16:44:45.099Z]	<Juan_Caballero_(DIF/Spherity)>	i imagine more useful edits will be made to that UCR straw man during next week's 101 session than in the last month combined :D
[2021-04-20T16:44:48.411Z]	<heathervescent>	We've got like 3 101s in the planning
[2021-04-20T16:45:03.889Z]	<heathervescent>	Thanks mprorock!
[2021-04-20T16:45:18.813Z]	<Juan_Caballero_(DIF/Spherity)>	err, i meant for volunteering to 101 the trace-vocab
[2021-04-20T16:45:30.215Z]	<pete_M>	Kim: for the VC HTTP API work item, given what exists now how to make this more accessible?
[2021-04-20T16:45:35.732Z]	<Juan_Caballero_(DIF/Spherity)>	ofc thanks to heather for the venue and the momentum more generally!
[2021-04-20T16:46:06.019Z]	<pete_M>	... just for the community to think about for later, what else?
[2021-04-20T16:46:08.547Z]	<Orie>	+1 to raising the bar for new work items
[2021-04-20T16:46:13.052Z]	<Orie>	significantly
[2021-04-20T16:47:02.059Z]	<heathervescent>	+1 Kim for bringing this up. I'd like to retroactively require the owners to add non-jargon details.
[2021-04-20T16:47:06.171Z]	<pete_M>	... are there easy document clean ups we can do? One idea: for any work item that seems confusing, I like to see a 101 presentation for that
[2021-04-20T16:47:38.608Z]	<Kim>	q?
[2021-04-20T16:47:42.999Z]	<pete_M>	... writing / presentation / collaboration. The last thing is how we deal with PRs and other requirements for responses
[2021-04-20T16:47:50.580Z]	<Orie>	heather, we might flag existing work items that fail to meet the bar, including codeowners from multiple companies, explainer in the readme, etc...
[2021-04-20T16:47:51.055Z]	<Kim>	ack Manu_Sporny
[2021-04-20T16:48:00.033Z]	<pete_M>	Manu_Sporny: +1 to that, we can pause and document things better
[2021-04-20T16:48:12.271Z]	<Jacob_Dilles>	Maybe survey other work, EU was mentioned earlier in IIW, Microsoft has one, I am sure there are many many more. State how this API relates to the prior work, will help make the scope more clear for newbies  :)
[2021-04-20T16:48:21.745Z]	<pete_M>	... Mike asked a good question, which is part of the conflict: "What's the scope of this thing?"
[2021-04-20T16:48:37.267Z]	<Orie>	if its just internal, the way the tests are being used is fairly dishonest
[2021-04-20T16:48:37.467Z]	<pete_M>	... it has become clear that many companies want there to be a "holder" API
[2021-04-20T16:48:39.347Z]	<heathervescent>	@Orie, this has been on my chair todo list since July!
[2021-04-20T16:48:47.599Z]	<Orie>	regaridng interop "proof"
[2021-04-20T16:48:55.505Z]	<Troy_Ronda>	Yes - we would like to have Holders and Mediators.
[2021-04-20T16:48:55.823Z]	<heathervescent>	@Orie, wanna help me make those work items comply lol
[2021-04-20T16:49:20.841Z]	<pete_M>	... there are tons of flows to manage when moving around the ecosystem. So do we want to open this up External/Internal APIs
[2021-04-20T16:49:23.552Z]	<Orie>	sure, just need a process to make them visibly non formant
[2021-04-20T16:49:29.643Z]	<Orie>	@heather ^
[2021-04-20T16:49:45.238Z]	<Orie>	then they will heal themselves naturally
[2021-04-20T16:49:51.818Z]	<Kim>	q?
[2021-04-20T16:49:52.767Z]	<Troy_Ronda>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/vc-http-api/issues/176 and https://github.com/w3c-ccg/universal-wallet-interop-spec/issues/84
[2021-04-20T16:49:56.392Z]	<pete_M>	... the scoping conversation is probably the biggest conversation we need to have
[2021-04-20T16:50:00.800Z]	<heathervescent>	@orie, sweet. I'd sincerely appreciate some help, momentum & accountability. I've wanted to do this for a long time and cull the languishing work items.
[2021-04-20T16:50:11.806Z]	<mprorock>	we for instance require external exchange and operations using VCs far beyond issue / verify - so if vc-http-api does not support those use cases or external usage we need to create one
[2021-04-20T16:50:37.101Z]	<Orie>	Bump PR: https://github.com/w3c-ccg/vp-request-spec/pull/9
[2021-04-20T16:50:53.660Z]	<pete_M>	Anil_John: comments from Heather/Kim, I fully agree with the importance of fundamental process discussion
[2021-04-20T16:51:12.902Z]	<pete_M>	... what is the value of VCHTTPAPI, multi vendor, multi platform, interop
[2021-04-20T16:51:44.902Z]	<pete_M>	... everything we just talked about is the problem for this powerful technology
[2021-04-20T16:51:52.754Z]	<Troy_Ronda>	q+
[2021-04-20T16:52:28.390Z]	<Kim>	ack Anil_John
[2021-04-20T16:52:34.298Z]	<pete_M>	... at the end, groups not in this community need to be able to use/understand this tech
[2021-04-20T16:52:49.967Z]	<Kim>	ack Troy_Ronda
[2021-04-20T16:53:45.768Z]	<Kim>	Topic: CCG work item / meeting requirements
[2021-04-20T16:53:53.927Z]	<mprorock>	+1 troy - similar support for broader scope from mesur.io
[2021-04-20T16:54:18.202Z]	<pete_M>	Kim: tracability work items brought up questions on how to work in the open
[2021-04-20T16:54:28.097Z]	<Orie>	imagine even having calls! excited to have calls!
[2021-04-20T16:54:28.954Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	q+ to note who I gave rights to
[2021-04-20T16:54:37.206Z]	<heathervescent>	Manu can also go
[2021-04-20T16:54:48.575Z]	<heathervescent>	I can also comment
[2021-04-20T16:54:53.078Z]	<Orie>	q+
[2021-04-20T16:54:57.761Z]	<heathervescent>	/give summary
[2021-04-20T16:54:58.312Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	q-
[2021-04-20T16:55:01.463Z]	<heathervescent>	q+
[2021-04-20T16:55:01.947Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	q+
[2021-04-20T16:55:09.833Z]	<Kim>	ack Manu_Sporny
[2021-04-20T16:55:25.547Z]	<Kim>	ack Orie
[2021-04-20T16:55:27.176Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	q+ to close out on how to get your own meetings.
[2021-04-20T16:55:43.319Z]	<Kyle>	q+
[2021-04-20T16:55:53.557Z]	<pete_M>	Orie: just to repeat my request to the chairs, if we have meetings, we need to make sure we are conforming to the rules
[2021-04-20T16:56:02.985Z]	<pete_M>	... recording, notes, etc
[2021-04-20T16:56:26.264Z]	<pete_M>	... the community should have explicit instructions on how to hold meetings that follow the rules
[2021-04-20T16:56:37.543Z]	<pete_M>	... this will make it easier for everyone
[2021-04-20T16:56:58.895Z]	<Kim>	is link to instructions ok? otherwise we're repeating a lot of info in each README
[2021-04-20T16:57:23.668Z]	<mprorock>	link to instructions is preferred by me if possible
[2021-04-20T16:57:33.539Z]	<pete_M>	heathervescent: work items can have a series of meetings, not sure if that's been noted in the CCG process documentation
[2021-04-20T16:57:47.244Z]	<Mahmoud>	+1 to instruction link
[2021-04-20T16:58:04.292Z]	<Orie>	any instructions would be better than none, I would be happy to link to a single source of truth for running CCG meetings
[2021-04-20T16:58:06.338Z]	<pete_M>	... maybe guidance on what work items that should not be recorded vs should be
[2021-04-20T16:58:07.907Z]	<Kyle>	q-
[2021-04-20T16:58:25.743Z]	<Kim>	guidance on what to record sounds great
[2021-04-20T16:58:58.806Z]	<Kim>	I'm writing some notes I'll add to a tracking issue
[2021-04-20T16:59:15.246Z]	<heathervescent>	Minutes: https://w3c-ccg.github.io/publish_minutes.html
[2021-04-20T16:59:26.274Z]	<heathervescent>	Github desktop interface: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1xsFZ6GKOHLsYwIN8DGYnVZRtxvx9eVZ4QQ6WJF6zgcI/edit
[2021-04-20T16:59:26.936Z]	<pete_M>	... creating minutes has two separate documentations
[2021-04-20T16:59:30.006Z]	<Anil_John>	Sorry .. Have to drop off for another meeting. Happy to chat directly if anyone has questions.
[2021-04-20T16:59:53.213Z]	<Kim>	q?
[2021-04-20T17:00:00.013Z]	<heathervescent>	ack heathervescent
[2021-04-20T17:00:14.261Z]	<TallTed>	q+ to suggest erring on the side of more (minutes, recording, etc.) -- overall better/safer in all cases to record than to not (even if the minutes/recordings are kept private in short term, when discussing something that happens to be sensitive in whatever way)
[2021-04-20T17:00:14.339Z]	<Kim>	ack Wayne_Chang
[2021-04-20T17:00:29.183Z]	<pete_M>	Wayne_Chang: i support more permissive policy for calls for those in the community that want to participate
[2021-04-20T17:00:39.666Z]	<Orie>	the easier it is to run and record meetings, the more often it will happen
[2021-04-20T17:00:49.091Z]	<Kim>	q?
[2021-04-20T17:00:51.922Z]	<pete_M>	... I'll be working on publishing these instructions, sometimes around mid May
[2021-04-20T17:00:57.574Z]	<Kim>	ack Manu_Sporny
[2021-04-20T17:01:15.235Z]	<Mahmoud>	is there a place where i can find the list of scheduled meetings?
[2021-04-20T17:01:38.220Z]	<pete_M>	Manu_Sporny: +1 to refreshing the documentation. Tracability call seemed like they just needed a room, we appointed the people in charge, who now have Admin rights
[2021-04-20T17:01:47.564Z]	<Kim>	Mahmoud: https://w3c-ccg.github.io/announcements/
[2021-04-20T17:01:58.575Z]	<heathervescent>	@mahmoud: we are trying to also add these meetings to a google calendar.
[2021-04-20T17:02:05.748Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/infrastructure/issues/11
[2021-04-20T17:02:06.231Z]	<pete_M>	... the infrastructure is there for the community to use, WITH Chair approval. This is rather easy to set up
[2021-04-20T17:02:18.140Z]	<heathervescent>	and if you like @mahmoud, I can add the traceability meeting to the CCG calendar
[2021-04-20T17:02:23.625Z]	<Dmitri_Z>	@pete_M -- fantastic job scribing btw!
[2021-04-20T17:02:28.434Z]	<Juan_Caballero_(DIF/Spherity)>	:D
[2021-04-20T17:02:35.198Z]	<Mahmoud>	how do we go about adding traceability call ot that list?
[2021-04-20T17:02:45.235Z]	<pete_M>	... access is rather easy, the community simply should ask
[2021-04-20T17:02:45.740Z]	<Kim>	ack TallTed
[2021-04-20T17:02:46.961Z]	<Mahmoud>	oh thanks heather thats my exact question!
[2021-04-20T17:03:13.720Z]	<Kim>	Mahmoud - you can create a PR to that page I sent (it's a github pages site)
[2021-04-20T17:03:21.034Z]	<pete_M>	TallTed: its best to record more information rather than less. The culture is to do it in the open so everyone has access to work that is happening
[2021-04-20T17:03:23.528Z]	<heathervescent>	@mahmoud: why don't you email me the details - heathervescent@gmail.com and I'll add it
[2021-04-20T17:03:23.771Z]	<cel>	thanks
[2021-04-20T17:03:24.219Z]	<Kyle>	It's been fun joining the CCG call this week!
[2021-04-20T17:03:25.579Z]	<Juan_Caballero_(DIF/Spherity)>	yes, maximal transparency is very important! API design conversation makes everyone very nervous, getting this in the open ASAP will help calm all nerves
[2021-04-20T17:03:28.197Z]	<pete_M>	Kim: thank everyone. Call over!
[2021-04-20T17:03:29.244Z]	<Kyle>	see ya on github