Thanks to Our Robot Overlords for scribing this week!

The transcript for the call is now available here:

https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/2025-03-18/

Full text of the discussion follows for W3C archival purposes.
Audio of the meeting is available at the following location:

https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/2025-03-18/audio.ogg

A video recording is also available at:

https://meet.w3c-ccg.org/archives/w3c-ccg-weekly-2025-03-18.mp4

----------------------------------------------------------------
W3C CCG Weekly Teleconference Transcript for 2025-03-18

Agenda:
  https://www.w3.org/Search/Mail/Public/advanced_search?hdr-1-name=subject&hdr-1-query=%5BAGENDA&period_month=Mar&period_year=2025&index-grp=Public__FULL&index-type=t&type-index=public-credentials&resultsperpage=20&sortby=date
Organizer:
  Harrison Tang, Kimberly Linson, Will Abramson
Scribe:
  Our Robot Overlords
Present:
  Harrison Tang, Rashmi Siravara, TallTed // Ted Thibodeau (he/him) 
  (OpenLinkSw.com), Will Abramson, Tom S, Erica Connell, Jennie 
  Meier, Jeff O / HumanOS, Ankur Banerjee, Mahmoud Alkhraishi, Mike 
  Xu, Manu Sporny, Rob Padula, David Chadwick, Joe Andrieu, Greg 
  Bernstein, Nis Jespersen , PL, Kaliya Young, Chandi 
  Cumaranatunge, Przemek, Przemek P

Our Robot Overlords are scribing.
Will Abramson:  Great how everyone welcome to today's ccg call uh 
  today we will be continuing our discussion from last week I think 
  we have uh anchor is here to just give us an update on the linked 
  resources and then.
Will Abramson:   We're gonna.
Will Abramson:  Kick off it is.
Will Abramson:  Discussion sorry started on the mailing list 
  about potentially migrating our video conferencing tool to 
  something else and we will also be having a discussion about some 
  new meeting formats that we want to experiment with and would 
  love to hear your input on.
Will Abramson:  Uh so before we get started just to put the Spiel 
  so code of ethics and professional conduct you know we follow the 
  w3c code of conduct and professional code of ethics and 
  professional conduct uh you know let's continue to make these 
  meetings and this community uh positive environment for everybody 
  I think we do a good job so it's good to keep that in mind.
Will Abramson:  Uh okay next is IP note uh so anyone is welcome 
  to participate in these calls however to substantive 
  contributions to any of our work items must be members of the ccg 
  with 4 IP agreements signed.
Will Abramson:  Um if you don't show all that means or if you 
  have any questions just reach out to us we can help you with 
  that.
Will Abramson:  Um yeah call notes these meetings are recorded 
  and everything you know is is recorded and made available after 
  the call.
Will Abramson:  We do use ARC or you know the the these minutes 
  of transcribed as well if you want to kind of think in the chat 
  you can you can press Q Plus to or raise your hand to get put on 
  the queue.
Will Abramson:  Okay uh introductions and reintroductions does 
  anybody new to the community or hasn't said hi in a while and 
  would like to say hello to today.
Will Abramson:  Love to hear from you.
Will Abramson:  Leave us hi.
Tom S:  Uh hi will I'm fairly uh still a newbie to the community 
  and it's been like a couple of months uh I just wanted to uh I 
  got a bit of an encourage encouragement to open up on these 
  meetings I don't know if this is the right call I just have a 2 
  minute idea to present and take feedback from the community 
  should I wait for a different call or can I talk about my idea 
  right now yeah.
<mahmoud_alkhraishi> Hi Nivas, 
Will Abramson:  Uh uh first time any of us uh great to have you 
  here I I would suggest for the best approach would be to put a uh 
  your idea together in an email on the mailing list um then folks 
  can chime in there and then also potentially we could have a 
  schedule a call about it in the future.
Will Abramson:  I'd like to uh.
Will Abramson:   You know.
Will Abramson:  Like this agenda is quite full I'd like to make 
  sure we have time to get through all the content.
Tom S:  Perfect thank you I'll do that thank you so much.
Will Abramson:  You know the mailing list I think it's uh.
Will Abramson:   That yeah great.
Will Abramson:   Thank you.
Tom S:  I do that yeah thank you so much.
Will Abramson:  Okay thanks Nas anybody else want to say hello 
  before we move on.
Will Abramson:  No uh okay uh announcements and reminders so I 
  don't have any announcements or reminders they want to share with 
  the community today.
<davidc> I cannot hear Manu
Manu Sporny:  Yeah just a quick 1 um tomorrow uh we are going to 
  have started having meetings on promoting some of the ccg work 
  items to the standards track at w3c uh so this includes things 
  that have been incubating here for a while uh like the VC API uh 
  did key uh verifiable credential barcodes did web uh confidence 
  method render method uh in really anything else that Focus you 
  know would like to discuss um that call is going to be tomorrow 
  uh at 11:00 am Eastern so an hour earlier than the the meeting 
  right now um and you know invite anyone that wants to participate 
  in that discussion there we're going to be covering some of the 
  work items in more depth talking about things that might need to 
  be fixed or updated or changed before things go standards track 
  and the timeline for taking those items uh standards track.
<harrison_tang> I can.  I think there might be an audio issue on 
  your end with Jitsi.
<tallted_//_ted_thibodeau_(he/him)_(openlinksw.com)> is that on 
  calendar?
Will Abramson:  Great thanks man uh David I saw you couldn't hear 
  em sorry about that I I could hear him trying hopefully everybody 
  else could can you hear me.
<mahmoud_alkhraishi> yes we hear you both fine
Will Abramson:  Kind of move on sorry David if you can't hear us 
  still anybody else have any announcements I'll remind us.
Will Abramson:  Uh and if not we can get into the main agent.
TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com): Just a quick 
  request for that tomorrow's meeting to be put onto the W3 
  calendar so it shows up in mine thanks.
Manu Sporny:  I can't do that Ted because the meeting 
  infrastructure that we're using the new stuff uh requires a 
  Google Enterprise account and uh well I guess we could move the I 
  sent it out to the mailing list so it should be on the mailing 
  list um.
TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com): Um I'll try 
  and find it there it just doesn't show up automatically thanks.
Manu Sporny:  Okay I can also Ted I can also add you manually but 
  then it blasts does weird email blasting and spams everyone um.
TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com): Yeah no need 
  for that.
Will Abramson:  Okay sounds like some Central discussion for 
  later when we talk about the infrastructure uh okay let's kick 
  off I'm going to share my screen on how slides I mean I think.
Will Abramson:  Stuff is going to be you anchor just to give you 
  a heads up.
Will Abramson:  Yes so as I said I mean I can show me to present 
  or is this okay.
Will Abramson:  You still see the side.
Will Abramson:  Okay great yeah so there's not many slides but I 
  will keep this shared throughout so that means I can't look at 
  the queue uh maybe I could have anyway I'm not looking at the 
  queue so just to flag yeah so Ana over to you how did link 
  resources again on.
Will Abramson:  Yes great thanks ano um I have a question but if 
  anyone else has questions jump on on the Queue yeah my question 
  is like timeline I mean I think this has been a work item for a 
  while and that's that's fine right but like.
Will Abramson:  To it would be great to think you know whilst the 
  timeline and process of getting this to like a published final 
  work item.
Will Abramson:  Cool great thanks.
Will Abramson:  Anyone else have questions.
Will Abramson:  Oh man perfect.
Manu Sporny:  Um this is all great uh anchor and wonderful uh you 
  know um recap of uh the importance of the spec um once it's 
  finalized uh what are kind of your plans on kind of Standards 
  track the reason I ask is we're like trying to work on a couple 
  more w3c Charters um I don't know if you or expectation is we you 
  know fold this into some of those Charters or if you think like 
  the place to standardize this is probably uh some some other 
  place that um you know would be a would be a better fit do you 
  have thoughts there on on.
Will Abramson:  Yes so I would say just add you know did 
  resolution is being standardized at the w3c current.
Will Abramson:  Cool okay great thanks for that and thanks for 
  that update uh let's move on.
Will Abramson:  Next we going to have a discussion hopefully 
  we're going to try time boxes because there are other things.
Will Abramson:  I want to go yes.
Harrison_Tang: Pilot will sorry yeah I think uh David can 
  actually provide a quick update about the verify uh no verify 
  list of verifiers and issuers yeah.
Will Abramson:  I don't have a slide for him but sure go for it 
  David if you are able to.
Will Abramson:  Or maybe you can't hear us.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  If you're on Firefox David there is a bug 
  with jitsi that may be preventing you from speaking you are 
  unmuted though but we can't hear you.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Maybe we come back later.
Will Abramson:  Yeah okay I mean this is good to highlights for 
  kind of why we're having these this next discussion anyway.
Will Abramson:  If you get back on just jump in maybe even after 
  this discussion we can fit you in sure.
Will Abramson:  Uh yeah okay so I'm just trying to set this up 
  right like we're going to start a discussion today on this call 
  about whether we should migrate and what that migration might 
  look like I think after this call or in fact there is already an 
  email thread so maybe we'll just bump that thread up by putting 
  some of these questions on there uh this is open like I'm going 
  to time box it because we have other things to get to but you 
  know the aim is to discuss you know where the migrating to from 
  jitsi would be a good idea and like what platform I mean I think 
  it feels like to me probably the platform is Google meets and 
  some of the work that man has done you know being able to export 
  and keep some of the.
Will Abramson:  Features of Jutsu like uh this transcribing and 
  you know the um recording and stuff like that.
Will Abramson:  I put some prompts I mean you don't have to 
  listen to them but I just want to start the discussion so if 
  anyone wants to jump on the Queue and say yes I really want to 
  migrate and this is why or no please stay on jitsi because jitsi 
  is great like let's see you I mean I will just say you know there 
  are some challenges with jitsi which I think we've all 
  experienced from time to time you know you have to be on.
Will Abramson:  El Brave right like if you're on Firefox you have 
  some issues like the audio issue that maybe David is having it 
  does occasionally Crash from time to time uh and we all get 
  kicked out and have to rejoin.
Will Abramson:  On the first side you know is open source there's 
  some really good features uh you know managed on a lot of work 
  like.
Will Abramson:  Making this transcribing work with IRC and like a 
  whole bunch of other stuff like.
Will Abramson:  But then again that stuff does take maintenance 
  but you know a lot of the community hasn't really seen because 
  manual digital have taken it off.
Will Abramson:  On public view if you care about this talk.
Will Abramson:  Great thanks Ana and I will just say you know 
  like it's worth noting that the w3c working group meetings I 
  think always uses Zoom but they pay an additional cost which is 
  somebody in those meetings is described and they manually take 
  notes in IRC so there's notes aren't trapped within Zoom or you 
  know it's much easier to export them and get them out of there.
Will Abramson:  So that you know could be an option but then we 
  can describe and that's always a challenge.
Will Abramson:  Maybe you can speak about like I know you've done 
  a lot of work on the jitsi side but recently you've done some 
  work on the zoom on the on the Google meet side right and we're 
  using Google meet in the data Integrity calls currently.
Will Abramson:  I mean obviously I don't think we've had much 
  time to like experiment with that I think we just had 1 call but 
  you know maybe you can speak about bit yeah go for it.
Manu Sporny:  Sure happy I was trying to stay quiet to to make 
  sure that the rest of the community had had uh a chance to air 
  their Grievances and and support uh you know uh or or lack 
  thereof for jetsey um.
Manu Sporny:  I well before because I'm gonna I'm gonna bombard 
  the group with a lot of information and I'm trying really trying 
  hard not to you know tilt the conversation 1 way or the other so 
  I'm gonna stay quiet.
Manu Sporny:  Until we're absolutely sure that everybody has 
  provided their input and then I'm I'll try to provide some some 
  input as well at that point.
Will Abramson:  Great thanks I appreciate that.
<harrison_tang> You are too fair, Manu
Will Abramson:  So you had Manna if if you have thoughts or you 
  know now is the time to chime in on this conversation so we'd 
  love to hear from you uh.
Will Abramson:  I'll get to you since anchor sorry.
TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com): Uh first 
  thing since you highlighted the the transcription versus the 
  describing.
TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com): We are an 
  organization of humans who are conversing with humans.
TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com): And often 
  that means that we need to be politic in the way we speak and the 
  way we take notes of how we speak.
TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com): Um which 
  means that transcription can be a downside while scribing.
TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com): Going to be a 
  little bit more nuanced about what is recorded and how its 
  recorded.
TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com): All of these 
  tools have pros and cons and.
TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com): It's unlikely 
  that we're going to do a real good review of them in the sort of 
  loose vocal format but I'll take it as given that this is just 1 
  input to the considerations um.
TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com): Setting that 
  the folks doing it having some knowledge of them are using some 
  kind of spreadsheet and tallying pros and cons and points and 
  stuff but I'll leave that to you guys.
TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com): They all have 
  pros and cons yeah we're now W3 is now.
TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com): Using Zoom 
  for all its working groups.
TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com): Uh in the 
  past it was using WebEx for all of its working groups and other 
  things have been used before that um.
TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com): RC has a 
  history not just of being the note-taking space but also of being 
  a textual conversation space.
TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com):  uh it.
<ankur_banerjee> In case anyone is interested, Zoom AI's "Meeting 
  Summary" privacy policy: 
  https://support.zoom.com/hc/en/article?id=zm_kb&sysparm_article=KB0057861
TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com): Used less for 
  that these days but.
TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com): It can be 
  used for that more than it is um.
TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com): While getter 
  was a popular thing now and more popular thing is element or 
  that's the the software I forget the name of the.
TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com): The 
  discussion Network that's being used underneath element um.
<pl> Google Meet, last I checked does not support end-to-end 
  encryption. E-to-E encryption is only to Enterprise and Education 
  Plus users.
TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com): And I'm sure 
  there will be another popular 1 as time goes on just because 
  these tend to be open source projects.
TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com):  they get.
TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com): Popular for a 
  while and they get long in the tooth and somebody new comes along 
  and reinvents that wheel and it becomes popular for a while.
TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com): Um that's 
  sort of the nature of the Beast and what we're doing.
TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com): Uh that's 
  enough for this moment I have a lot of perspective because I've 
  been doing this for 20 years but uh for what it's worth.
Will Abramson:  Sure thanks Ted I mean I really appreciate the 
  perspective that they all have pros and cons right like and what 
  are the pros of jitsi is this is like what we're using right now 
  and you know there's some sort of cost that we have to pay to 
  move.
Will Abramson:  Part of this discussion but anyway uh anchor go 
  for it.
<jeff_o_/_humanos> First blush I like the Zoom stance on the data 
  not being used outside the purpose of referencing the call's 
  history.  I also appreciate the scribing v transcriber nuances.
Will Abramson:  Yeah exactly I mean kind of we are already doing 
  that in well I mean Mario has we are adopting the Google meet 
  approach in data Integrity calls that happen on Friday morning.
Will Abramson:  But yeah maybe if we do decide to migrate we 
  would also try them here too.
Will Abramson:  Uh I think Joe you're next.
Joe Andrieu:  Yeah thanks um yeah I.
Joe Andrieu:  Hey Greg it's is um got to be really problematic 
  and and we should have this conversation.
Joe Andrieu:  What I'm sad about is it looks like the direction 
  we're we're going in if I understand what Manner is going to be 
  proposing is that we're going to lose a little bit of our 
  visibility or maybe all of our visibility into the real time um.
Joe Andrieu:  Transcript stream and I think 2 of the most 
  valuable features I love with our current setup is 1 queuing with 
  a reminder.
Joe Andrieu:   I can.
Joe Andrieu:  So valuable because the conversation goes all over 
  the place.
<tallted_//_ted_thibodeau_(he/him)_(openlinksw.com)> forgot one 
  of the current downsides of the transcription being used for 
  Jitsi, which is that non-USA speakers ARE NOT LOGGED, which loses 
  a lot of useful content
Joe Andrieu:  Sometimes when I get recognized for the queue I 
  forgotten what I was going to say unless I had said you know use 
  that mechanism with the Q Plus to say talk about whatever like I 
  did uh for this to support the real-time visibility of transcript 
  prescribing um the other thing that's really valuable to me that 
  I'm worried about losing is the uh that you miss a point 
  someone's made and then people are arguing about it and the 
  ability to scroll back and see what made it into the transcript 
  is hugely valuable um so if it really I just want to make a case 
  for having real-time visibility into what that output is.
Will Abramson:  Thanks Joe I mean I will just flag uh that 
  feature that you described really uh.
Will Abramson:  We don't get unless like I have to act you right 
  like if people are putting their hand up and I just say you know 
  oh my mood you can speak then I think automatically that he gets 
  taken off the queue.
Will Abramson:  So I think it is a good feature but we don't 
  currently use it well in in the ccg meetings I think if anything 
  that sounds like an argument to go back to IRC more properly and 
  maybe try and upskill people in IRC use.
Will Abramson:   But anyway.
Will Abramson:  Uh I agree it's a good feature uh.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Um I think there's an elephant in the room 
  that we kind of sort of talked about on the mailing list and I 
  want to make sure that I surface here which is that meet and zoom 
  are closed source and Jitsu is obviously open source.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  There are a lot of people who have a lot of.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Um ideological feelings around that 
  situation.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  I'm going to leave that there if there are 
  anybody who would like to expand on that point please do the.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Big reason why I personally feel we should 
  move is because of 2 core issues the first is jitsi has regularly 
  caused us a ton of interruptions in calls at a ton of 
  difficulties that were around speaker being just unable to get 
  started and you get like a 5 10 minute delay or whatever people 
  regularly like today can't hear other people on the call or they 
  can't interact or anything like that that's just a standard that 
  we currently live with and I personally find it to be very 
  disruptive and very annoying and I would much rather we not have 
  to uh deal with it the second big reason why I believe we should 
  move is because there are a number of features that would be 
  available from other.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Platforms that I think are going to be very 
  useful going forward for this call such as breakout rooms which 
  would so so 1 of the things that I talked about last week is a 
  proposal for breakout rooms and breakout conversations to go 
  through and talk about water cooler moments and have those like 
  conversations and that's not really possible with jitsi as it 
  currently is right and I would much rather we find out.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Um you know you use any uh user piece of 
  software has this integrated now it may be possible to just 
  organize you know 15 16 different jitsi meetings and like run 
  them all at the same time and have people join them Etc but I 
  don't believe that is really sustainable but I'm obviously happy 
  to hear any and all feedback on that but that's really my sense 
  on this.
Will Abramson:  Yeah thanks Mahmood yeah I definitely agree 
  breakout rooms is a thing that we would want or we do want I mean 
  1 option just to like I guess show the other side is for me a 
  breakout room session is something that would be unscribble.
Will Abramson:  Closing the conversation David.
<mahmoud_alkhraishi> The transcription doesn't capture EU iirc
Will Abramson:  Great thanks David and I guess you were right you 
  weren't transcribed then so that's very interesting it's not like 
  you very much yeah thanks I really appreciate that uh Ted last 
  word on this and then yeah I guess Mana can speak.
TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com): Yeah that's I 
  threw this into the the chat but it's words on screen so they 
  don't get picked up as well um words in the air now will get 
  picked up differently because I'm in the US and so the 
  transcriber will listen to me uh I know this is a limitation a 
  known limitation of this transcribing service and I don't know 
  how.
TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com): Able it is if 
  you were to be kept as the thing to use.
TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com): Open source 
  hey it's great except when it's not um that's it.
Will Abramson:  Great thanks Ted.
Will Abramson:  Uh sorry I my name is gonna have the last word on 
  this and then I think we need to move on because I want to get to 
  the rest of this stuff.
Will Abramson:  I don't go for.
<davidc> The problem with lack of transcription is that when I 
  report on Trusted Lists none of what I say will appear in the 
  minutes
Manu Sporny:  Okay yeah um I'm I'm.
Manu Sporny:  Not going to go into the the reasons each 1 of 
  those features you know doesn't work I think we've covered them 
  on previous calls um you know uh Google refuses to transcribe any 
  audio you send in using anything under then the en language tag 
  uh Apple refuses to implement certain web RTC things and when 
  they do they uh accidentally quote unquote transmit you know 
  Hang-Ups to everyone else in the group and that bug stays around 
  for 2 months and then goes away and then it comes back um you 
  know fundamentally I think there's a very unfortunate series of 
  mimics in Jetty and then bad behavior by the browser vendors um 
  that have caused you know people to have a bad experience uh with 
  jitsi I think some of it is anti-competitive behavior um and you 
  know this is how open source ecosystems die um I.
Manu Sporny:   Am usually.
Manu Sporny:  Ing very strongly to use an open source thing and 
  eat our own dog food and uh you know um take a principled 
  position on the meeting infrastructure that we use considering 
  we're trying to build kind of you know decentralized uh 
  Technologies um uh but I but I give up um you know I've been 
  fighting this fight for 10 years and uh I think it's it's pretty 
  clear that you know.
<ankur_banerjee> Only thing I was gonna say is I appreciate from 
  Zoom, Google Meet, Teams etc the feature of having a 
  floating/"picture-in-picture" window so that meeting controls can 
  be be overlaid while switching/changing screens. I don't think 
  that's possible in Jitsi, I always have to return to the Jitsi 
  tab for it.
Manu Sporny:  People don't care enough about this particular 
  thing to put in the time to make the ecosystem sustainable right 
  so I'm unwilling to continue to support the jitsi uh approach 
  because largely it's you know taken many many hours and uh uh out 
  of my weekends and my holidays to try and keep the meaning 
  infrastructure going um on top of that you know it's cost upwards 
  of 95,000 for the infrastructure over 10 years plus probably 
  close to 120% amount of money um okay so I don't think there's an 
  option to continue using jetsey because the people that are 
  maintaining it are unwilling to do so anymore um.
Manu Sporny:   Uh what.
Manu Sporny:  He can do.
Manu Sporny:  Uh though is moved to a different platform um uh 
  huge minus 1 to zoom I have tried 3 times to get uh to use the 
  zoom apis while they have a good privacy policy they have an 
  absolutely horrible uh uh API um and we would not be able to 
  achieve some of the things that that we need to achieve using 
  Zoom uh Google meet we can do that the transcriber that we use is 
  Google's transcriber that's the thing that you know people are 
  looking at and complaining about not doing a good job uh but we 
  would be using the exact same transcription service if we were 
  able to you know if we moved to to Google meet um.
<mahmoud_alkhraishi> The minutes were wonderful btw
Manu Sporny:  We do lose all of those features that Joe mentioned 
  um but as uh we'll uh said you know we don't really use those 
  features um I have been able so we so will we we do use it for 
  the VC API call as well um we ran uh you know a a trial anchor 
  last week uh whenever and it worked you know swimmingly for you 
  know the people that were on the call um the minutes were 
  summarized and sent out to the mailing list so if you go and you 
  look at the that the mailing list um you'll see that we were able 
  to Archive uh the text transcript and the audio transcript um 2 
  server infrastructure that we control that server infrastructure 
  is cheap it's just a a VM that stands out there um uh you know 
  serving um video files and audio files um we were also able to 
  use an AI summary to summarize the entire transcript and it.
Manu Sporny:   Did a pretty.
Manu Sporny:  Um you know we covered some pretty in-depth things 
  in the data Integrity work and the um and the BC API work and uh 
  the summaries.
Manu Sporny:  Impressive it's definitely gotten much better over 
  the past you know 2 years um for those of you that don't know we 
  we have been the kind of.
Manu Sporny:  Around with seeing if meet and zoom were capable 
  and it's only recently that they actually added the apis that 
  allowed us to You Know download transcripts um you you needed to 
  use you know the the zapier approach that um uh Anka mentioned 
  you know before that.
Manu Sporny:  Does have a different privacy policy uh and frankly 
  you know if it's AI related I don't think we should trust 
  anybody's privacy policy these you know tech companies have been 
  shown to violate their own privacy policies on a fairly regular 
  basis Facebook being the most egregious 1 saying that they 
  wouldn't use copyrighted content and recorded audio to train 
  their models and then being caught red-handed you know 2 2 months 
  after so um but that that has been going on for years and we have 
  all been participating in that because this transcription that 
  we're using uses uh Google so um uh Google says more or less the 
  same thing um.
Manu Sporny:  But you know how things work in in Silicon Valley 
  uh I don't know how much we can actually trust these these uh 
  privacy policies to really be doing what they're what they say 
  they're doing behind the scenes so um all that to say uh I think 
  we have the most important things in place to migrate to Google 
  meet uh we do get breakout rooms I have no idea how transcription 
  works there uh we would probably end up saving money um because 
  it is expensive to run a jitsi uh you know video and audio server 
  and support you know the type of change in in week to week um uh 
  participation that we have.
Manu Sporny:  Um so we would end up spending less money if we 
  were not going to run both of these systems in parallel please 
  please please let's not do that it's just more work for the for 
  the team that has to um you know keep the systems up and running 
  um so you know if we're going to move over to something let's 
  move over quickly and and tear off the Band-Aid and and get it 
  done uh I think we have everything in place.
Manu Sporny:  To start that migration process just a heads up uh 
  to the chairs that um we will have to get we we will have to get 
  a Google Enterprise account to do this you can't get the 
  transcription and breakout in recording services and the ability 
  to download uh the content without paying.
Manu Sporny:   You know.
Manu Sporny:  Top dollar for the for the the the the thing Google 
  has but even even if we pay that it's going to be less than uh 
  what we're spending in cloud services fees for for jitsi and file 
  hosting and all that kind of stuff um okay so uh sorry that that 
  was a you know a lot of information the the net net is uh huge 
  minus 1 to zoom it I don't think it's gonna work for us um uh 
  Google meet stuffs already written so the only thing we need to 
  do is create the new meetings using a new ccg owned Google 
  workspace account so we need to work with the chairs to get that 
  put in place transfer some domains you know set up emails to 
  factor all that kind of stuff so there's just administrative 
  stuff that needs to happen there um and then those real time 
  things are not possible um either with zoom or Google meet they 
  don't let you have that level of control um that uh jitsi has so 
  we.
Manu Sporny:   We are not going to get.
Manu Sporny:  Um uh there's a chance that we can hand write 
  something but at Great expense to whoever does development.
Manu Sporny:  Other thing that I think we should probably.
Manu Sporny:  Look at is archiving our video on YouTube uh there 
  have been 3 failed attempts at doing that where people will 
  volunteer to do it and then they kind of get there and then 
  something happens and it's not taking the rest of the way so um 
  with what we have right now we should be able to do that fairly 
  easily meaning the new Google stuff um uh with me in the in the 
  upload um.
Manu Sporny:  So that's the only last remaining thing that I 
  think we probably should consider um.
Manu Sporny:  And that's it.
<harrison_tang> :clap:
<mahmoud_alkhraishi> Absolutely, thank you Manu and DB team
Will Abramson:  Great uh thanks M and you know point taken I 
  guess we are not going to be staying to use Tity if digitals are 
  and you are not willing to support it and I I guess I want to 
  express my gratitude to you and your team right for all the 
  thankless hours you've put in to make jitsi as it is I think you 
  did a remarkable job of people probably don't really appreciate 
  it realized um okay great.
<jeff_o_/_humanos> Absolutely Yes! Thx Manu!
Will Abramson:  That was useful we can continue this on the 
  mailing list maybe we'll try and summarize some of these points 
  and share them out.
Will Abramson:  I feel like we have a.
Will Abramson:  A direction forwards uh so it's 15 minutes left 
  let's see I mean I would like a bit more time but maybe there's 
  enough.
Will Abramson:  So yeah last week we kind of floated this idea uh 
  this week we want to discuss it in a little bit more detail we're 
  the chairs are exploring you know some alternative meeting 
  formats you know.
Will Abramson:   Different way.
Will Abramson:  That we can facilitate dialogue encourage 
  participation and you know build shared understanding between us 
  all here uh you know some ideas we've had is like the debate 
  format maybe sort of like a happy hour mixer.
Will Abramson:  Breakout room style you know and and that's like 
  casual get to know people in the community rather than a formal 
  so that's kind of why I would say that those things don't need to 
  be scrapped right like it's it's about you know just chatting 
  with people who are here and who show up and get to know each 
  other.
Will Abramson:  Without it being in the public you know it's so 
  public as a main meeting.
Will Abramson:  Educational theories and also you know if you 
  have ideas or you think there's a good format we could explore 
  you know definitely jump on the Queue and let us know I think 
  just some things we'd like to consider is like how regularly 
  would you like these meetings to happen you know we have a free 
  calendar currently from July I think it would be great to decide 
  and then start scheduling some you know at least blocking out 
  some of the calendar for that you know 1 thing around that is it 
  might be nice to get into a good Rhythm where people can say oh 
  you know that meeting the first meeting of every month or the 
  third Tuesday of every month is educational and maybe I don't 
  care about that I'm not going to show up.
Will Abramson:  Yeah and then topics obviously if we're going to 
  do this like particularly for debate or educational series we 
  need topics so there's a topic you want to learn about or if 
  there's a topic you would love to hear some other people debate 
  like let us know because we're going to need to start creating a 
  list of some sort of a structure that we can start pulling from 
  to make this easy right because currently.
Will Abramson:   It's quite.
Will Abramson:  Easy either meeting list I mean Harrison's done a 
  great job of getting our agenda ready you know like I said we've 
  got until July booked out with people I think the only.
Will Abramson:  Claims are not the challenges like the our 
  meetings that we typically hold are somebody coming to talk at 
  us.
Will Abramson:  And maybe a bit of Q&A I think we'd like to 
  explore some more um meetings of people all get to you know 
  contribute and feel comfortable doing so.
Will Abramson:  So yeah ideas and volunteers welcome and and 
  really needed if this is going to happen it's not just going to 
  be because the chairs make it happen it's going to be because we 
  get Buy in from other people on this call.
Will Abramson:  Questions comments jump on the Queue let's have a 
  discussion uh.
Manu Sporny:  Yeah that all sounds good the only the only format 
  I'm I'm a bit concerned about actually sorry Harrison and David 
  are on the queue.
Manu Sporny:  Jump on that.
Harrison_Tang: Oh no I I I just want to remind that the uh David 
  David actually is back so he can provide the update on the the 
  list of vert verify verifiers and issues.
Will Abramson:  Okay well let's do that let's I'll try to save 
  some time at the end.
Will Abramson:  That's all right.
Will Abramson:  Okay David do you have something about this or.
Will Abramson:  Okay well I mean this time I think you know I 
  don't think you need long right I try to say 5 minutes at the 
  end.
<mahmoud_alkhraishi> used against them how?
<mahmoud_alkhraishi> I understand
Manu Sporny:  Uh sure yeah so the only format on here that I'm 
  concerned about is the debate format um uh you know as folks know 
  we've had some you know really great debates in the in the past 
  um in this group and just in the community um but we you know 
  there's also the danger here that someone comes in uh you know 
  taking a particular position in a particular debate and that's 
  used against them um uh which has happened you know multiple 
  times um I've seen that happen to you know people uh in the 
  community um and in it ends up becoming kind of a really nasty 
  thing right I mean so for example it used against them Mahmud 
  like you know we're in a customer meeting and 1 of our other 
  vendors is is uh pointing to things that we had said publicly and 
  and trying to convince the customer that we are against the thing 
  that um uh uh you know we're in the room.
Manu Sporny:   To talk about.
Manu Sporny:  You know it's and you know vendors vendors do this 
  you know often um they they need to differentiate themselves from 
  the other competitors but you know even when there's a debate 
  that's had in good faith it is transcribed it's down there you've 
  got audio with people arguing passionately 1 way or another and 
  then uh some vendors end up using that as a as a as a tactic um 
  which is problematic um in in the the other thing is that you 
  know there there have been some pretty nasty schisms um in kind 
  of the digital credential space um uh you know there's the mdl 
  NBC stuff there's the oid 4 NVC API stuff there's the you know uh 
  payment Handler.
Manu Sporny:  Uh credential Handler umm uh web a you know the 
  like the the pass key stuff um while I you know wish it were easy 
  or to have um.
Manu Sporny:  Debates in the community it feels like every time 
  we have 1 that everyone comes out of it covered in mud and no 1 
  comes out of it looking looking good or or better so um that 
  that's my biggest concern with the debate format is that there 
  are a number of us that are just going to duck out because it has 
  burned us so many times um and you know uh and that's bad right I 
  mean clearly that's bad any any any time you have you know debate 
  silenced um or people don't feel like it's it's possible to kind 
  of you know uh engage in a intellectual debate without it you 
  know backfiring on them um I think that's you know that's uh.
Manu Sporny:  Not good so I'm I'm again you know there's some 
  debates that we could probably have and and you know or kind of 
  friendly you know wants to have and there are other debates where 
  there are you know Market forces at play that you know turn the 
  debate into misinformation and then uh and then copy and paste 
  that misinformation around the the ecosystem that's it.
Will Abramson:  Great thanks manto I mean I definitely recognize 
  debate is probably the most challenging format we have put on 
  there uh Mammoth and I'll just say we've got 5 minutes left on 
  this so if you want to jump on the Queue jump on now uh uh after 
  my mood to speak so we will close the queue.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Yeah um there's a I hear you 100% on the 
  negative inferences that may that some vendors can raise that is 
  absolutely about concern that is the thing that the most we can 
  do if we have this format is have some clear disclaimer stating 
  these are you know the whole point of a debate is to explore 
  ideas and to learn and to grow together and if things are not 
  done in good faith in that perspective then absolutely this 
  format will not work and I'm with you there the.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Core premise here is to facilitate a place 
  for people to discuss ideas where you may not know why other 
  members of the community disagree with and because for whatever 
  reason they just have more details on it or you may uh disagree 
  with yourself purely from a I think it would be a bad idea to do 
  X because of why and I believe X is the better thing I think it 
  is 100% down to your last comment which is the topic that we will 
  have for the debates is going to be so the make or break sort of 
  for this format if we have something like mdl versus VCS we're 
  wasting our time right but if we have something that is less 
  contentious but still something that comes up regularly on the 
  group on the working groups I think those are the kinds of things 
  that would allow.
<tallted_//_ted_thibodeau_(he/him)_(openlinksw.com)> Traditional 
  debates do not require (indeed, often dictate otherwise) that the 
  speakers *actually* support their position, rather than being 
  assigned to argue it
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Heard and to help educate everybody else on 
  their viewpoints and I I think that that's a thing we all need to 
  strive to do and work on and that's really my 2 cents there.
Will Abramson:  Great thanks mood uh Leah you got the last word 
  on this topic today.
Kaliya Young:  I'm really responding to me I think there's 
  misinformation on.
Kaliya Young:  Quad Faith happening in many directions in this 
  community.
Kaliya Young:  I've just come back from 3 weeks on the road and 
  had someone on 1 discussions with folks and.
Kaliya Young:  It's a bit exhausting to have certain people 
  themselves as victims of big companies all the time that's just 
  not what's going on and there are Market forces at Play.
Kaliya Young:  I I just wish people.
Kaliya Young:  Find a way to actually believe that some people 
  are actually acting in good faith and actually have legitimate 
  technical concerns about things and not just disparage.
Kaliya Young:  What they say.
Kaliya Young:  Big Tech ganging up on this little Community 
  because it's not what's going on.
Kaliya Young:  I think if we want our standards to be adopted and 
  taken seriously we need to listen to the market.
Kaliya Young:  And not try and.
Kaliya Young:  Ourselves up in ways that are disingenuous.
Will Abramson:  Um okay thanks Korea um.
Will Abramson:  This was you know the starting point of this 
  discussion I guess I will say um we we will put another thread on 
  the mailing list.
Will Abramson:  I guess the main thing to think about is you know 
  we currently have space from July like if you want to make this 
  happen we need to start thinking now like if if you're new to 
  this community or you're not that experienced and there are 
  things you want to learn about like let us know and we can try 
  and schedule them in for an educational session that you know 
  maybe people who are experienced don't want to attend.
Will Abramson:  That's fine but we got to get them in the 
  calendar early and maybe the debates thing needs a little bit 
  more um.
Will Abramson:  A little bit more thought but I think it is an 
  interesting idea.
Will Abramson:  Okay with that I think it's over to you David I 
  don't have a slide or maybe I do have a slide.
Will Abramson:  I do have a slide love it.
Will Abramson:  Okay yeah go for it if you want.
Will Abramson:  Yeah move so.
Will Abramson:  Whatever you prefer.
Will Abramson:  Uh icon can everyone else.
David Chadwick: 
  https://w3c-ccg.github.io/verifiable-issuers-verifiers/
Will Abramson:  Great if you put the URL in I will share my.
<jeff_o_/_humanos> Thx All
