Thanks to Charles E. Lehner for scribing this week! The minutes
for this week's Credentials CG telecon are now available:

https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/2020-10-27 

Full text of the discussion follows for W3C archival purposes.
Audio from the meeting is available as well (link provided below).

----------------------------------------------------------------
Credentials CG Telecon Minutes for 2020-10-27

Agenda:
  https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-credentials/2020Oct/0079.html
Organizer:
  Kim Hamilton Duffy and Wayne Chang and Heather Vescent
Scribe:
  Charles E. Lehner
Present:
  Charles E. Lehner, Heather Vescent, Jonathan Holt, Chris 
  Winczewski, Manu Sporny, Adrian Gropper, Orie Steele, Wayne 
  Chang, Anil John, Kim Hamilton Duffy, Jeff Orgel, Markus 
  Sabadello, Taylor Kendall, Snorre Lothar von Gohren Edwin, Juan 
  Caballero, David Chadwick, Maarten Boender, Nader Helmy
Audio:
  https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/2020-10-27/audio.ogg

Heather Vescent:  We're going to do a report out from IIW today, 
  and John Hoopes to talk about their work. [scribe assist by Manu 
  Sporny]
Heather Vescent: 
  https://sri-csl.regfox.com/digital-wallets-challenge
Heather Vescent:  SVIP Wallet competition having an event for 
  wallet competition winners -- if you're interested, you can still 
  register. [scribe assist by Manu Sporny]
Heather Vescent: https://www.w3.org/community/credentials/join
Heather Vescent:  IP Note: Anyone can participate, please make 
  sure you are a member to contribute substantive stuff. [scribe 
  assist by Manu Sporny]
Heather Vescent: https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/
Heather Vescent: https://github.com/w3c-ccg/meetings/pull/18
Heather Vescent:  You need to make sure you have a W3C account 
  and contribute. These meetings are transcribed and archived. As 
  we've been transitioning  over to Jitsi, we've been rewiring 
  things... some of meeting minutes for last couple of weeks are 
  not at that site yet, however, you can find all meetingminutes in 
  a raw form here. [scribe assist by Manu Sporny]
Heather Vescent:  Once we have a solid transition to Jitsi or 
  whatever we end up using, we'll clean up the minutes in 
  retrospect, if you need specific minutes, please get in touch w/ 
  the Chairs. [scribe assist by Manu Sporny]
Anil John: You can also join the SVIP Digital Wallet event via 
  Webinar (right after this CCG Call)Webinar Link @ 
  https://sri.zoomgov.com/j/1615598230?pwd=Rjk0WS9hVEtmU3V0cWg2QUJoOTlzUT09 
   Passcode: 886204  Webinar ID: 161 559 8230
Heather Vescent:  We use IRC to queue -- please use IRC to queue. 
  [scribe assist by Manu Sporny]
Heather Vescent:  You can "q+ to say something" [scribe assist by 
  Manu Sporny]
Heather Vescent:  When we call on you to speak, keep 
  point/comment to one point/comment, keep it brief so we can allow 
  time for everyone to respond. [scribe assist by Manu Sporny]
Heather Vescent:  Let's do scribe selection. [scribe assist by 
  Manu Sporny]
Heather Vescent: 
  https://docs.google.com/document/d/1LkqZ10z7FeV3EgMIQEJ9achEYMzy1d_2S90Q_lQ0y8M/edit#
Charles E. Lehner is scribing.
Heather Vescent: Now we are on to introductions and 
  re-introductions. Is there anyone on the call who would like to 
  introduce themselves?
John IV: [...]
Heather Vescent:  Reintroductions. Erica, are you on today?
Heather Vescent:  Dead bernett, Orie
<kimhd> s/dead/Dan
Orie Steele:  Transmute. global supply chain traceability
Heather Vescent:  Manu, reintroduction
Manu Sporny:  Manu Sporney, CEO of DIgital Bazaar, [..] Virginia
  ... part of community almost a decade, doing standards work
Heather Vescent:  Thanks [...] jitsi
  ... moving to progress on action items
Heather Vescent: Action Items: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/community/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3A%22action%3A+review+next%22
Heather Vescent:  Start out with the jitsi status. Wayne, update
Wayne Chang:  Jitsi is healing. no one's fault other than browser 
  vendors changing theings up making it diffucult for some folks to 
  listen. manu did investigation. fixed upstream, need to pull. 
  takes time. why we are on zoom. work up and running, haven't had 
  a crash in a while. if community wants to continue trialing 
  jitsi, that is an option on the table. for the interim we are 
  using zoom. thread on
  ... mailing list [...] thanks
Heather Vescent:  We had plans to use Jitsi for todays meeting. 
  had word there were issues that it would affect people we didn't 
  want to affect. in last hour, switched over to zoom
  ... lot of discussions on the list very religious, technology 
  fundamentalism. i shared my thoughts. but personal thoughts don't 
  matter if will of the communtiy is different.
  ... chairs arae supporting move to jitsi, working overtime, 
  accomodating. would like to see the community acknoledge that and 
  positive work rather than have negative threads while we are 
  dealing with on ongoing bugfixing issue.
  ... Let's talk about the next action item, documentation of CCG
Manu Sporny:  Real quick on jitsi thing. we are waiting on... 
  infrastruture upgrade. people being very aggressive firewalls - 
  gov buildings, corp offices, bank-grade security - can't join 
  calls. believe impact small number of people. but didn't want 
  toopen bridge and have 10-20% of people say cannot hear audio - 
  would reduce trust in jitsi infrastructure.
  ... didn't want to tell people to dial in . that is why 
  switched on this call. not difficult to fix but takes time, need 
  to figure out bug.
  ... because had it working before, expect to get back to i very 
  quickly when resolved this bug
Heather Vescent:  Chairs are working overhead at your benefit for 
  your service. give us the benefit of the doubt rather than 
  assuming the worst
Heather Vescent: https://github.com/w3c-ccg/community/issues/138
  ... let's move on to the next time, a really big success we are 
  excited to move forward on
Heather Vescent: https://w3c-ccg.github.io/workitem-process/
Kim Hamilton Duffy: https://w3c-ccg.github.io/workitem-process/
  ... kim
Kim Hamilton Duffy:  Thank you. one of the items that heather is 
  referring to, that chairs have been listening on.
  ... part of it is the work item process. how to shepherd it 
  through the draft process
  ... a lot of it was learning what we do, documenting it. 
  painful meetings where you discussed
  ... final part converting it to respec, reducing complexity, 
  the ramining confusing parts of the process
  ... this now not proposing we release as draft. makes sense to 
  keep as ongoing community draft, a notion formalized in this 
  process
Making the process more accessible for a broader range of work 
  items
  ... investigating
  ... what we are used to vs what is required
  ... we make it clear we are open to innovation on that front
  ... think of this document as a work in progress
  ... thanks everyone. as an ongoing community draft its open to 
  comments, PRs, any time
Heather Vescent:  Question for community
<jeffo-stl> What is Zoom Link? Thx
<mprorock_mesur_io> I would like a walkthrough
Heather Vescent: Zoom link: 
  https://us02web.zoom.us/j/81174841680?pwd=Y040R0RhZE5vbktVVkZ5VGh1b3p3dz09
Kim Hamilton Duffy:  Talked about in past. don't want to 
  necessarily expose people to the inner working of it. there are 
  points - here is what happens when we propose a work item behind 
  the scences
  ... in reality ... github. prompts people to go do the simple 
  thing rather than understanding the whole document
  ... if people are interested in a summary based on this final 
  revised version, we can go through that
Heather Vescent:  That makes sense. what might make more sense is 
  how to submit a new work item
  ... a reference document rather than the actual practical 
  process
Kim Hamilton Duffy:  We have been updating the github entry page
Kim Hamilton Duffy: https://w3c-ccg.github.io/
Kim Hamilton Duffy:  We have been ensuring that things like using 
  irc, proposing a work item, ... should be up to date
  ... any comments, let us know
  ... we want to get it so you have a clear launch point to get 
  started
Manu Sporny:  Love the new document. really appreciate the work 
  that the chairs and veryone else put in it. it is clear as far as 
  i can tell, being that it started many years ago
.. Need to help new members of community understand how things 
  work here. don't need to take telecom time to do it. read through 
  document, ask questions on the ML.
  ... how the process works, queueing works, scribing works, 
  answering questions.
Manu Sporny: +1 To W3C CCG 101 :)
Heather Vescent:  Idea for CCG 101 series to acclimate new folks
Mprorock_mesur_io: thanks. from our side, we have been tracking 
  CCG for a number of years now. big difference from moving to a 
  tracking mode to an engagement mode. want to make sure we are 
  stepping through this the right way
<kimhd> This sounds great Mike
  ... being helpful, engaging. did work with gentoo. periodic 
  onboarding sessions, over irc, a time. volunteer a while, a 
  month. rotate through folks coming into the community
  ... causing an issue without meaning to
Heather Vescent:  Love it. adding an issue
  ... really like. as the chairs have more open space on our 
  plates, a really great thing for us to pick up
Kim Hamilton Duffy: +1 From me too
Wayne Chang:  Big +1 to that. also great to run into fellow 
  gentoo users. or sorry you had to go through that, depending on 
  your experience
  ... platform to engage with work item authors. onboarding, how 
  to keep people engaged. a skill set in itself to be able to 
  wrangle a group of volunteers across companies to move a spec 
  forward
  ... starting a mailing list thread
Heather Vescent: https://github.com/w3c-ccg/community/issues/136
Heather Vescent:  Final issue. kick of discussion, learning from 
  th last co-chair election
Taylor Kendall: +1 Re: WI process. awesome work to all :)
  ... chair vacancy next year. kim a huge supporter. busy 
  transferring knowledge
  ... we have been cleaning up to make it easy for a new chair
  ... election
  ... i'm a futurist, i like to plan. we are talking about 
  succession planning in the chairs so we can have knowledge easily 
  transferred
  ... kim's still going to be here, part of the community. we 
  love her. we just want to give her a little of a break
  ... there were a variety of comments based on the last 
  election. i was not privy to how it worked as i was running for 
  it
  ... there is this issue open, want to have discussion, come up 
  with an election process
  ... that we will be mostly comfortable with. make sure enough 
  time for voting. clarity when we announce winners
  ... reached out to christopher allen but he was unable to join 
  us today
Heather Vescent:  Does anyone have thoughts on tracking this or 
  addressing this issue?
Manu Sporny:  Tried to put ben on the queue, he had a question in 
  chat
Heather Vescent:  Ben
Bengo: question about phone number on CCG mailing list
  ... i also try to track the community, see phone number, it 
  never works. am i wrong to rely on it?
Heather Vescent:  Are you talking about logging into zoom?
Bengo: ccg website does not say anything about zoom
Heather Vescent:  Were you at the beginning of the meeting?
Bengo: no
Heather Vescent:  We are in process of switching
  ... normally have call-in numbers
Bengo: managed to find it
  ... have before sent people to this url. hard to get on call if 
  phone doesn't work
Heather Vescent:  This is result of us changing, upgrading or 
  meeting infrastructure, of which we are in the messy middle right 
  now
  .... goal is for us to switch over to jitsi which has call in 
  numbers
  ... due to technical reasons this meeting is held on zoom
  ... info on mailing list. understand less than ideal for your 
  team. unusual time right now. switching from old hard-coded 
  audio-only irc version into more accessible meeting structure
  ... first choice is jitsi, but coming across, slowly fixing 
  various bugs
  ... depending on state of jitsi system may make executive 
  decision to fall back to zoom rather than ...
  ... suggest get on mailing list
  ... i personally send that link from twitter
  ... would like to get more organized
Bengo: if meeting normally going through jitsi, will number - 
  digital bazar - normally work with jitsi?
Manu Sporny:  We will update the number. there is a new number 
  that will get you through the bridge. we will add a EU number. 
  anyone that wants a number for their country, please ask
  ... adding number costs about $12/year
  ... goal is to support phone call in for members that need it
  ... it will be there with jitsi
Wayne Chang:  We hear you. will do a better job, opening issue to 
  better communicate where active info is
Heather Vescent:  Volunteer
Kim Hamilton Duffy:  I interpret bengo's question a different way
  ... one thing we haven't done in CCG is send out standing 
  invites. i tend to interact with my life via calendar. if not on 
  calendar, doesn't exist to me. if there is not a link in there, 
  all messed up
  ... task force: send out invices, keep up to date. don't know 
  why we haven't done it in CCG
  ... could do something to let people optionally add it to their 
  calendar
  ... could be an easier way to coordinate
Heather Vescent:  Same. i live and die by my calendar. manually 
  add to my calendar.
  ... occasionally some people ask me to add them to it
  ... could add, perhaps for task forces as well
Heather Vescent:  Onto the main event now, a little behind time, 
  that's ok.
  ... today we want to talk about iiw (Internet Identity 
  Workshop)
<wayne> q}+
  ... sessions you liked, what was interesting
  ... put yourself on queue to make a comment
Wayne Chang:  Exciting discussion that has happened, across 
  different standards organizations, interested groups, etc.
  ... seems to be opportunity for convergence. extreme overlap
  ... WebID, CHAPI. in the area of extending browser api towards 
  these things
  ... openid psyop profile. user can be their own idp
  ... how does that relate to web browser api extensions, did, 
  resolution thereof
  ... discussions happening in groups at DIF, several mailing 
  lists
  ... if browser support, could have huge implications
Adrian Gropper:  To add to that, there was an interesting 
  session, mini face to face on authorization, secure data stores
  ... a lot of OGs on te oauth2 side, gnapps side, capabilities 
  side, were there. some progress made. potentially a harmonization 
  of how gnapp and zkaps work together. not sure if would work out, 
  but was progress
Kim Hamilton Duffy:  I had a session with orie and daryl ? on 
  wallets
  ... building on wallet discussions had here. read through 
  literature, concluded the way we define wallets is dumb but how 
  in secure storage
  ... getting clarity. hope to write up results soon
<snorre> What was the name of this? Kim?
Heather Vescent:  Let's move to the main event, John, are you 
  ready to tell us about what you are doing
<kimhd> not-so-smart wallets
John IV: hello, my name is john. representing Actual DAO (?)
Snorre Lothar von Gohren Edwin: Thanks :D
  ... team on call
  ... sharing screen
Heather Vescent:  Link to slides
https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/147bfVk_0AGYkMhFTjzEp7v2S_sYN6_ZQpf3I52NEN90/edit?usp=sharing
Johnx25bd: here to talk today about Astral Protocol new DID 
  method spec designing to identify spacial data assets
  ... our background. working with this team. intimidated by 
  brainpower in the room. not experts in DIDs or VCs
  ... presenting work to validate our thinking, get feedback
Manu Sporny: Don't be intimidated, we're as scared of you as you 
  are of us! :P
  ... at rebooting web of trust in prague in 2019. met few of you 
  there, dabbling at the edges
  ... technical director. congestion zones on smart contracts
<by_caballero> oops did anyone get that deck link?
  ... problem: need data registry to represent borders on 
  congestion zones
  ... thinking of how spatial ... web3
  ... joined kernel fellowship, met Jao and Jared
  ... smart contracts don't know where you are
  ... talking about potential of spatial based applications
  ... location is an intrinsic property of any (physical) 
  individual.
  ... all of our (traditional) governance systems are based on 
  where you are. walk across border, subject to different rules
  ... connected world, thinking of how to bring into web3
  ... govern objects based on web3 in privacy-preserving way
  ... spatial finance
  ... using satellite imagery to inform financial decision making 
  process
  ... linked with world of DeFi. prototyping
  ... insurance, supply chains
  ... what kind of location-based dapps could be enabled by this
  ... robust land registries, AR, routing, fitness tracking
  ... location data, spatial data tech fundamental to how web is 
  useful
  ... web3 not complete without it
  ... geo did
  ... paris 2019 project, tried to write a library of topological 
  functions in solidity
  ... preserve privacy of sensors but check to see if they are in 
  a particular location
  ... test to see if point is inside polygon, based on EVM
  ... spatial analytics library. terfJS
  ... apply policies to car based on whether inside or outside of 
  zone
  ... possible, but gas costs balloon with size of polygon. 
  looping through vertices
  ... not feasible on ethereum main net
https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/147bfVk_0AGYkMhFTjzEp7v2S_sYN6_ZQpf3I52NEN90/edit?usp=sharing
  ... other ways. parallel, eth london. created project 
  Geolocker, verifiable spatial data registry for self-soverign 
  users
  ... zone administrators
  ... administer policies, but they would be self-sovereign
  ... register and upload vector geometries (geoJSON) to backend. 
  3box, also ArWeave
  ... hierarchical soverignty. register zone, need to get 
  approval from government
Bengo: Hey Astral team. If ethereum main net isnâ€™t working 
  nicely for GIS applications, Iâ€™d love to learn if we can make 
  this alternative work better. 
  https://sdk.dfinity.org/docs/index.html
Johnx25bd: topological overlap, want to detect border dispute, 
  arbitrate.
  ... hierarchical approval question
  ... seems to be the point where VCs would come in. authority 
  over jurisdiction issue credential that zone is valid
  ... fused to Hyperaware. spatial governance protocol for 
  connected devices
  ... created system of smart contracts and distributed storage.
  ... have secure enclaves on devices. jurisdiction registry 
  where they register
  ... self-soveriegn users. privacy for zone administrators. 
  check to see if in polygon without revealing point or polygon
Device owners register DID on IoTeX
  ... zone owners register GeoDID
  ... validator in enclave tests if point in polygon
.. In validator, makes transaction in enclave, submit to smart 
  contract transfering contract to zone administrator
  ... zone owner encrypt data with validator's public key. would 
  not reveal details but could be tested in enclave
  ... pairwise DIDs for preserving privacy
  ... alpha implementation of GeoDID. register DID. in document, 
  have reference to GeoJSON with outline of vector geometry
Juan Caballero: 
  https://www.amazon.com/Seeing-like-State-Certain-Condition/dp/0300078153 
  <-- The assumption that all sovereigns track their territory as a 
  set of polygons and Cartesian coordinates reminds me of this 
  book, which has a whole chapter about the exceptions (thanks to 
  both Kaliya Young and Aragon Black's Danny Shavit for forcing me 
  to eventual read it).
  ... zone registry interfaces. someone like greater london 
  authority could come on and register zones
  ... we represent geometery in services array
  ... single DID, administrator could own multiple geometries
  ... service endpoint point to arweave geojson
  ... draft. service object could be valid geojson
  ... decentralized finance application
  ... bond issuance. 10 year bond. every year, structure of bond 
  updatd based on input based on value derived from analysis of 
  satellite imagery
  ... satellite image of air quality. submitted every year. 
  updated what buyer have to pay
Taylor Kendall: @Manu polygonapocolypse -- my new band name, thx 
  :)
  ... incentive to improve air quality. fork contract, linked to 
  sustainability metrics
<mprorock_mesur_io> how would this differ from using a json-ld 
  location object in a vc or did - and having a services layer with 
  normal geospatial processing on the backend side of things for 
  analysis, e.g. geopandas, etc? - or is this just a proposed 
  standard for handling those kinds of work flows?
  ... the approaches we took that we realize how leads to DIDs
  ... a DID to identiyy spatial data assets. raster image, or 
  sensor data
  ... modelling to be compliant to spatial temporal asset 
  specification
  ... standardized way to search for raster data sets
  ... want to build on tools they have. amazing for collating 
  spatial data assets
Vector: web-native way to represent vector spatial data. not 
  absolutely necessary. could represent a shape file. store in 
  service endpoints array
<tayken> Ha, wayne...but of course
  ... doing early research, alpha prototyping. one geoDID to 
  control multiple spatial data assets
  ... looking into transferability, rights to access
Orie Steele: Very interesting work, please comment regarding the 
  privacy implications of location data in service endpoints here: 
  https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/382
  ... have specification in progress
  ... drafted reference implementation of the code
  ... prototype UI
  ... for registering. npm modules, client-side
<by_caballero> email address for feedback?
Taylor Kendall: Spatial data sans satellite -- similar to Foam? 
  https://foam.space
  ... looking for feedback
Juan Caballero: Was actually asking about people working on 
  similar problems :D
Heather Vescent:  No time to go over time today
Johnx25bd: adoption, government. twitter @astraldao, gitcoin 
  grant up
<kimhd> Thanks for scribing cel!
<wayne> thank you cel!!
<by_caballero> thanks cel
<johnx25bd> contact@astraldao.org
<by_caballero> be safe everyone
<matthew_basirico> Thanks for the invite Jessica and Melissa
<davidc> Is the Zoom working?
<guest1> Yes
<heathervescent> @DavidC yes, you should have a link from your 
  email
<snorre> Is this the irc for the wallet event?
<wayne> yes, it is. welcome snorre!
<readdytop> Exit
<chews_> howdy heather it's the chew you know :-)
<chews_> hahaha, it has been too long miss
<chews_> good work here... and we should talk to a standards 
  track for documents
<anil_john_> We will be opening up for Q&A after Sharon has 
  provided her overview...
Taylor Kendall: DoE Landscape Analysis: 
  https://ipfs.io/ipfs/QmdEnhQcWHTY4ndotRs1YRpeTdjZGAyisHz8buqfYidkP2
Heather Vescent: This is an example of queuing:
<heathervescent> Now I want to remove myself from the queue
<heathervescent> So if you have a question, please put q+ and 
  then type in your question.
<hmajeed> What are the top 3 features that you were looking for 
  in the digital wallet design?
<matthew_basirico> thank you!
<alfonso> How might we provide a demonstration and stress test 
  for this audience? Currently we have a product that is being used 
  and we believe we could have a 90% solution.
<milan> in the case of decentralized identity verifiable 
  credentials - how do you see DHS or other business models being 
  disrupted such? the model for decentrlaized identity is that an 
  issuer issues credentials to a holder and the holder presents 
  those credentials to a verifier without a verifier going back to 
  an issuer. a lot of issuers make money on verifiers going back to 
  them. how does this change from a business perspective?
<wayne> please use q+ prior to your question to be added to the 
  queue, Milan! thanks
<milan> to make decentralized identity scalable and practical, 
  there needs to be corresponding governance frameworks. what is 
  the business and legal convening and governance framework 
  definition happening to associated with tech exploration?
<hmajeed> Will you be using a third-part independent blockchain 
  as the credentials registry or gov created blockchain?
<heathervescent> chews this is stuff that gets discussed at the 
  CCG as well.
<chris_floersch> Question:  What mechanisms are employed to 
  achieve interoperability - ?  ie - API's, or other tools?
Juan Caballero: @Milan: The short answer is that the governance 
  work tends to happen in different places, where different experts 
  gather and work under different charters/scopes.  There is the 
  Trust-over-IP foundation, Kantara Initiative, Sovrin Foundation, 
  A New Governance, and MyData all working on SSI and SSI-related 
  governance work of various kinds.
Adrian Gropper:  Can you clarift this question "(to ask about the 
  wallet interacting with oracles (that communicate VC directly 
  with verifiers without a holder in-between))." [scribe assist by 
  Kim Hamilton Duffy]
<kimhd> (clarify)
<agropper> Consent to present a VC directly to a verifier
Adrian Gropper:  Ie. are you asking "will the wallet interact 
  with oracles?" and "will the wallet communicate VC directly...?" 
  we're having a hard time parsing the question [scribe assist by 
  Kim Hamilton Duffy]
<agropper> yes - interact with issuers as oracles
<chews_> @heather, I'll show ya the demo later of using a 
  passport to bootstrap blockchain id
<nav_> Question: How do we provide consumers/end users with a 
  level of assurance that the wallet is safe and secure? What 
  happens if they download a wallet built by a bad actor that 
  steals their information?
Adrian Gropper:  Sorry, I need it in the form of a question we 
  can ask. I'm still struggling to see the question [scribe assist 
  by Kim Hamilton Duffy]
<agropper> never mind
<sharonleu> Submit your project to the Dept of Ed's Blockchain 
  Innovation Challenge by 10/30: 
  https://www.acenet.edu/Research-Insights/Pages/Blockchain-Innovation-Challenge.aspx
Wayne Chang: https://www.w3.org/community/credentials/ <- join 
  the credentials community group here!!
<wayne> our mailing list is a lot of fun and we talk about 
  privacy, data formats, anti-trust, etc. everyone is invited!
<anil_john_> Manu - What is your question?
<wayne> (these are spillover from the previous panel)
<wayne> Great questions everyone, my condolences for running out 
  of time to ask them all!
<wayne> Please bring them to CCG, and we will make space for 
  them. Post them to the mailing list and I bet you'll get some 
  great answers
Wayne Chang: https://www.w3.org/community/credentials/
<kimhd> I'll take "do you consider key management/recovery as 
  part of wallet design?"
Juan Caballero: Link to agenda of Product Manager's group: 
  https://docs.google.com/document/d/13CU7du7m4BaHasFJJQuSYG0mk7BT51V3n7RAa100UZU/edit#heading=h.8ouepqg2pqfw
Kim Hamilton Duffy: Question:
Juan Caballero: It's on DIF's events calendar if you'd like to 
  subscribe to biweekly reminders about their meetings: 
  https://bit.ly/dif-calendar
<kimhd> 1. While this forum is focused on wallet design, where 
  can I find the security requirements for the digital wallet? Is 
  anything published? Thank you.
<kimhd> 2. ow might we provide a demonstration and stress test 
  for this audience? Currently we have a product that is being used 
  and we believe we could have a 90% solution.
<kimhd> 3. (Will you be using a third-part independent blockchain 
  as the credentials registry or gov created blockchain?
Adrian Gropper: I will ask my question again: Does the 
  functionality exposed by a wallet include consenting for a 
  verifier to connect and get a credential directly from an issuer 
  or oracle?
Kim Hamilton Duffy: 4. I will ask my question again: Does the 
  functionality exposed by a wallet include consenting for a 
  verifier to connect and get a credential directly from an issuer 
  or oracle?
<maarten> @by_caballero Link to calendar is broken
Juan Caballero: 
  https://lists.identity.foundation/g/id-productmanagers
Juan Caballero: Haha thanks Maarten, not sure, seems to wrk 
  here-- but you have to be auth'd to google, which is probably a 
  non-starter for many people in this community :D
<by_caballero> the email list might be a better link anyways, 
  since the chairs are good about emailing out agendas a day or two 
  before each meeting
<matthew_basirico> This is awesome, I definitely want to talk to 
  this company hereafter
<arshadnoor> Yes, it was from the previous session
<wayne> please add any questions to indicio to q+!
<wayne> for example,
<kimhd> thanks chews, good question
<wayne> clearing out the queue in preparation for the next round 
  of questions for the third winner
<wayne> please ask your questions! i think we have a few minutes 
  more
<wayne> thank you to folks who have asked questions already, 
  you've contributed a lot to the discussion
<jonny> Not automating consent, but automating the construction 
  of the package.
<nader> Will a recording of this event be made available after 
  the fact?
Taylor Kendall: +1 Important to elevate "the art of the possible"
<matthew_basirico> YES, Jerry MacGuire, just saw that movie, 
  "Help me, help you..."
<chris_majewski_ised> Will this recording be made available to 
  the group?
<heathervescent> @Nader, I have asked the panelists.
<lrc> Thanks to All
