Thanks to Our Robot Overlords for scribing this week!

The transcript for the call is now available here:

https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/2024-11-19/

Full text of the discussion follows for W3C archival purposes.
Audio of the meeting is available at the following location:

https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/2024-11-19/audio.ogg

A video recording is also available at:

https://meet.w3c-ccg.org/archives/w3c-ccg-weekly-2024-11-19.mp4

----------------------------------------------------------------
W3C CCG Weekly Teleconference Transcript for 2024-11-19

Agenda:
  https://www.w3.org/Search/Mail/Public/advanced_search?hdr-1-name=subject&hdr-1-query=%5BAGENDA&period_month=Nov&period_year=2024&index-grp=Public__FULL&index-type=t&type-index=public-credentials&resultsperpage=20&sortby=date
Topics:
  1. <Q4 2024 Review and Work Item Updates>
Organizer:
  Harrison Tang, Kimberly Linson, Will Abramson
Scribe:
  Our Robot Overlords
Present:
  Isaac Patka, Harrison Tang, Nis Jespersen , TallTed // Ted 
  Thibodeau (he/him) (OpenLinkSw.com), Vanessa, Tom S, Will 
  Abramson, Olvis E. Gil RÃ­os, Erica Connell, Jeff O - HumanOS, 
  David Chadwick, Jennie M, Dmitri Zagidulin, Ann, Manu Sporny, Tim 
  Bloomfield, John Henderson, Ted Thibodeau

Our Robot Overlords are scribing.
Harrison_Tang: Hi everyone so welcome to this week's w3c ccg 
  meeting so today we're just going to have a Q4 2024 review and 
  work item updates and also just a open Agenda so if you have any 
  questions or agendas or things that you want to bring up feel 
  free uh because today is the open floor um the before before we 
  start I just want to quickly uh go through some of the 
  administrative stuff uh first of all uh just a quick reminder on 
  code of ethics and professional conduct just want to make sure 
  that we hold constructive and uh great discussions here.
Harrison_Tang: Now a quick note on the intellectual property 
  anyone can participate in these calls however also sensitive 
  contributions to any ccg core items must be member of the ccg 
  with full IPR agreements signed uh so you have any questions in 
  regards to getting a w3c account or the community contributor 
  license agreement uh feel free to just let any of the cultures 
  know.
Harrison_Tang: Please note that all the conversations are public 
  uh so that if there's any uh private things that you don't want 
  to share with the public uh you know that's something to be aware 
  of.
Harrison_Tang: Now a quick note uh these meetings are 
  automatically being recorded and also uh transcribed as you can 
  see see it live uh so we will try to publish the meeting notes as 
  well as the audio and record uh video recording uh in the next 1 
  or 2 days.
Harrison_Tang: And we used to chat to cue the speakers during the 
  call as well as to take the minutes uh so you can type in Q Plus 
  to add yourself to the queue or cue minus to remove.
Harrison_Tang: And uh let me just uh remind myself and put a 
  topic for today's uh agenda actually in the chat give me a 
  second.
Harrison_Tang: So if I do this then uh.
Harrison_Tang: And the recordings that we will have it in the 
  transcriptions.

Topic: <Q4 2024 Review and Work Item Updates>

Harrison_Tang: All right uh so let's take a quick moment uh for 
  the introductions and reintroductions uh so if you're new to the 
  community or you haven't been active and want to re-engage uh 
  feel free to do so mute.
Harrison_Tang: And since today is uh we we have a smaller 
  audience uh.
Harrison_Tang: You know don't unmute I might call some people.
Harrison_Tang: I will since you are 1 of the cultures you want to 
  say say a thing or 2 start with you.
Harrison_Tang: Great yeah Will has been a great partner of mine 
  so thank you very fortunate to have you here.
Harrison_Tang: Anyone else want to introduce yourself.
Harrison_Tang: All right please leave us.
Tom S:  Thanks Harrison it's not really an intro I think this is 
  my third call here I just had a question to the community um that 
  is uh I'm very interested in the whole self Sovereign identity 
  and its Concepts it's so vast so many organizations and many 
  things are going around uh so as a non-coding person who doesn't 
  know to quote how can I contribute in any way just wanted to get 
  some advice on that that's it thanks.
Harrison_Tang: Yeah definitely so uh as well know and some of you 
  guys know I actually don't code as well so you can definitely uh 
  contribute I mean I have the GitHub account but I was just 
  telling will I sometimes I'm afraid to mess things up and uh mess 
  up the directories and things like that so you can definitely 
  contribute uh I think there's a lot of community reports that's 
  not super technical so you can definitely contribute about 
  probably start with going through the repositories and then maybe 
  uh correct some mistakes or add comments and things like that I 
  think that that would be a good good start.
Tom S:  Thank you I'll look into it.
Harrison_Tang: Yeah great question question.
Harrison_Tang: All right I saw that dimitry here dimitry where 
  where I'm calling on a couple of people and I'm I'm starting with 
  the old-timer so that they it gives us you guys are probably less 
  afraid to speak up so Dimitri do you mind like kind of introduce 
  yourself a little bit.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Hi everyone I'm a software engineer uh in the.
Dmitri Zagidulin:   The center as.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Space uh so I I do a little bit of everything 
  so I work on specifications I do Hands-On uh coding on some of 
  the libraries.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Create credentials that do signatures I work 
  on wallets.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Um and like I helped uh manage Dev teams and 
  so on so I I'm personally super interested in bringing some of 
  this Tech that we're working on in the ccg such as credentials 
  wallets DS Access Control I'm interested in bringing that stuff 
  to other areas like decentralized Social Web so I don't I don't 
  know if any of you have come across things like masteron and blue 
  sky and some of the Twitter and Facebook Alternatives there's a 
  lot of interesting activity happening in that space right now uh 
  using some of the tech that we've incubated here in this group so 
  so I'm really uh similarly uh I I do some work in uh verify 
  credentials in education.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Again just just another vertical that finds 
  stuff incubated here really useful so big fan of the group uh 
  also I'll stay up there.
Harrison_Tang: Thank you and the penitentiary also chairs the 
  Social Web while working groups oh sorry Community groups so if 
  you're interested I just uh join their conversation is there.
Harrison_Tang: I just saw a menu jumping on man we're doing a 
  quick uh quick intros I'm calling up a people you're 1 of the 
  former culture so do you mind.
Harrison_Tang: Speak a few words.
Manu Sporny:  Sure happy to um hi my name's Manos borney um I was 
  1 of the people that uh got together with some of the rest of you 
  and created this group way back in 2014 almost uh a decade ago 
  um.
Manu Sporny:  Uh I largely focus on kind of the specs and editing 
  the specs um uh so verifiable credentials decentralized 
  identifiers um along with the data Integrity stuff and render 
  methods and and things of that nature um uh I also um am the CEO 
  of a company called digital Bazaar uh we then take those kind of 
  uh standards uh create products around them and uh deploy them 
  into the market through organizations like uh US citizenship and 
  immigration services in the United States and the state of 
  California DMV um in the retail sector um uh through uh National 
  Association of convenience stores and other retailers um so uh 
  you know it's been wonderful to see the community grow over the 
  years and um you know tackle new verticals like Dmitri was 
  talking about um around.
Manu Sporny:   Uh social.
Manu Sporny:  And and that sort of thing um.
Manu Sporny:  Yeah 1 1 full to to uh be here and spend the time 
  with the rest of you building something that I think is pretty 
  important for Global Society.
Harrison_Tang: Thank you Manny and by the way Manu is still 
  helping out with the ccg stuff like uh.
Harrison_Tang: What I have a problem I just uh always go to him 
  so thank you thanks Molly.
Harrison_Tang: All right any other introductions reintroductions 
  before we move on to the next item.
Harrison_Tang: Don't be shy.
Harrison_Tang: All right I'm filming lucky so I'm going to call 
  on Ted Ted do you mind uh 1 more call on you might not introduce 
  yourself a little bit.
TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com): Uh sure I'm 
  Ted Tibido I've been working with open link software since late 
  2000 uh involved in.
TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com): Ugbs of W3 
  groups involving um rdf and linked data and identity and privacy 
  and.
TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com): Oh too many 
  to to actually bring to mind um.
TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com): I'm also 1 of 
  those people who does not so much code well my primary coding 
  language is English.
TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com): So that means 
  that I do a lot of poking at grammar and punctuation to try and 
  make specifications actually say what they're meant to say uh.
<manu_sporny> and Ted is /really good/ at doing that :)
TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com): I don't feel 
  bad if I don't poke at yours because that means your English is 
  good and don't feel bad if I do poke at yours because it just 
  means that something needed a little clarification.
Harrison_Tang: All right uh.
<manu_sporny> We depend on him greatly, across all of the things.
Harrison_Tang: Uh just want to go to the announcements or 
  reminders any announcements or reminders.
Manu Sporny:  Yes I've got 1 um there is.
Manu Sporny: 
  https://mailarchive.ietf.org/arch/msg/cfrg/J4pdvxigpXiW7bUfCNeD92fgzng/
Manu Sporny:  Sorry I totally did not raise my hand um there is a 
  current thing happening at the internet engineering task force 
  crypto form research group to adopt um uh some of the uh work 
  that uh this group has been doing I'm going to put a link in to 
  uh the chat channel uh this is around um BBS pseudonym so so you 
  know privacy is really important to this group and we're trying 
  to create these Global standards that enable someone to prove 
  some aspect of themselves without oversharing uh data like proof 
  that you live in a particular country but not share your home 
  address or prove that you're employed by a particular 
  organization but not express your name or your employee badge 
  number or something like that um uh so there's BBS that allows us 
  to do that and their pseudonyms um and blind BBS that um are up 
  for we're trying to get the.
Manu Sporny:  To adopt it this.
Manu Sporny:  FRG the crypto form research group to adopt it and 
  it's really important that people come forward and say hey these 
  features are important to me uh this is why uh please you know 
  adopt this work so there's a that we're trying to get a call for 
  adoption to happen at CFR we need the community support in doing 
  that if you go to that link and you well you have to sign up for 
  the mailing list and then if you like respond and say hey I 
  support the adoption of this that would really help us um get 
  some of these more privacy preserving Technologies uh adopted 
  that's it.
Harrison_Tang: Thank you man.
Harrison_Tang: Hey now their announcements were reminders.
Manu Sporny:  Sorry I forgot um the other thing that's happening 
  right now that um folks might not be aware of is there's a group 
  of us um.
Manu Sporny:  Between the ccg and uh decentralized identity 
  Foundation trust over IP Foundation Iota you know Foundation uh 
  there there's a fairly large group of us getting together that 
  are trying to standardize a few dead methods uh we are uh we had 
  our first meeting uh I think last week uh I think the next I 
  forget when the next meeting is um we'll try to send that out to 
  the mailing list um but there was really good turnout the last 
  time there were 35 people there all interested in standardizing 
  dids if you're interested in being a part of that process um it's 
  free to join you know uh you just show up uh share your opinion 
  and and thoughts um we'll get the next uh meeting announcement 
  out to the ccg but just wanted to make sure that people were 
  aware that that was happening because it's probably going to move 
  pretty quickly uh to select you know the features that we want in 
  these dids that we intend to go and standardized at uh.
Manu Sporny:  Uh the worldwide Web Consortium is 1 of the target 
  uh standards bodies.
Harrison_Tang: Cool um any other announcements or reminders.
Harrison_Tang: So a quick preview of what's coming so next 
  Tuesday we'll have Heather to talk about the latest developments 
  on Federate identity working group and then the week following 
  will have smaller Demitri and ethical to talk about the VC.
Harrison_Tang: And I'll send out those uh agendas uh a week in 
  advance.
Harrison_Tang: All right last calls for announcements and 
  reminders.
Harrison_Tang: All right so uh let's get to the work item updates 
  let me bring this up.
Harrison_Tang: Their voice should be able to see my screen.
Harrison_Tang: So first of all I just want to give a quick shout 
  out uh to everyone who have updated these slides uh quick shout 
  out to the Manu Benjamin and Isaac uh to actually help uh update 
  these things.
Harrison_Tang: So quickly walk through it uh.
Harrison_Tang: Someone wants to give a quick update.
Harrison_Tang:  or I can.
Manu Sporny:  Yeah I can do a quick update um so uh we've been 
  meeting regular we meet every uh Tuesday um uh at 3 pm Eastern we 
  send the uh meeting agenda usually out to the mailing list um we 
  have uh we we continue to kind of discuss BC API and how it's 
  being used and and whatever from week to week um the work there 
  of course has been delayed a pretty greatly because of all of the 
  work in the VC to a working group we're trying to get those specs 
  through the standardization process before we return our efforts 
  to finishing up VC API uh however the number of implementations 
  for VC API have climbed dramatically um over the last quarter 
  right I mean we we just talked about this 3 months ago in 3 
  months we have 5 new implementations that use VC API bringing the 
  number of implementations up to 16 which.
Manu Sporny:  That's great and it's like way more than we need to 
  uh standardized at least the base form of VC API um so uh just as 
  a reminder on what VC API is it it does kind of credential life 
  cycle management uh including issuance verification presentation 
  modifying the status of the credential like revoked or needs a a 
  refresh that's a new thing we're going to be talking about um uh 
  or suspended um.
Manu Sporny:  You can run uh o4 VCI and oid 4 VP over the VC API 
  so 1 thing that people don't quite understand is like VC API kind 
  of sits above on a layer above um oid 4 uh they're also VC 
  workflows and exchanges um that is being used uh much more 
  heavily in the retail space um for like retail based uh use cases 
  um uh it is also used extensively in the can ibc.com website and 
  the VC working group test Suite so everyone that is conformant to 
  the VC test Suites are also to some degree conformant to the VC 
  API especially like the issuance and verification part of that 
  API um it is in production with California DMV and open cred 
  which is being used by a number of California agencies uh to read 
  the California.
Manu Sporny:   Initial driver.
Manu Sporny:  That's a verifiable credential format uh it's in 
  production for uh true age um with you know 152,000 stores across 
  the US um uh building towards integrating you know with true age 
  that's been in production for about 2 and a half years at this 
  point um.
Manu Sporny:  Most of the issues have resolutions we just need 
  PRS to be written it's just slow going on those PRS um we do have 
  um a proposal for a next uh iteration of the VC um.
Manu Sporny:  Uh working group that includes things that are 
  being incubated in this group like render method and a confidence 
  method and uh verifiable credential barcodes and verifiable 
  credential Wireless and um uh and NVC API as well so we think 
  that proposal is going to go out Q2 of 2025 um we're we're 
  waiting on finishing up the vc20 work before we go on to kind of 
  the the next uh things um.
Manu Sporny:  It for uh VC API.
Harrison_Tang: Any questions or comments on the VC API.
Harrison_Tang: All right next uh VC test Suite.
Harrison_Tang: I see Benjamin on.
Manu Sporny:  Yeah I can probably take this 1 I don't see 
  Benjamin either.
Manu Sporny:  Um the uh the test Suites are you know what what 
  what what they say they are they're the test Suites that we're 
  building for the verifiable credential uh work there is a test 
  suite for verifiable credential 20 uh ecdsa ecdsa SD which stands 
  for Selective disclosure so that's like a selective disclosure 
  mechanism that uses government supplied uh uh government proved 
  cryptography uh there's BBS which lets you do on linkable 
  disclosure uh there's eddsa that just uses the Edwards curve um 
  uh uh and then um kind of a more Legacy 1 Ed 255519 signature 
  2020 which is the 1 that's deployed uh for the uh true age 
  program across the us we also have uh test Suites for bitstring 
  status list uh VC hosie cozy and VC Json schema um these test 
  Suites uh help.
Manu Sporny:  Uh people understand whether or not their 
  conformant to the specification um so to write something to the 
  test Suite you there's a API that you follow you implement the 
  API which is the VC API right now um and uh and then the test 
  Suite will make a bunch of calls to your implementation and tell 
  you whether or not you passed um the statements in the 
  specification um.
Manu Sporny:  Could we jump to the next slide uh I think uh.
Manu Sporny:  That has uh implementation so since the last time 
  we talked um all the green that you see there the pluses are the 
  new implementations that we've gotten in the last 3 months so we 
  have 4 4 new implementations for the verifiable credential data 
  model 2 we've got 2 new implementations for ecdsa we've got 2 new 
  implementations for PBS.
Manu Sporny:  4 New implementations for eddsa um uh 2 more for 
  for the kind of Legacy Edwards 20 2 uh 25519 signature 2020 and 
  we lost an implementation I think uh someone just kind of like 
  dropped out of the test Suite um uh for bittering status list 
  we've got 2 new implementations as well uh VC cozy Hosey does not 
  have any implementations that we know of right now and VC Json 
  schema uh only had block as the implementation um uh and you know 
  the future of that implementation is unknown uh because that 
  business unit unfortunately had block was um it doesn't doesn't 
  exist anymore um uh but overall we we we again have like way more 
  implementations that we need to go to a a final uh standard at 
  w3c the main thing we're waiting on right now.
Manu Sporny:  Uh a Security review uh and that Security Group 
  just was just formed uh this week and so we expect that to happen 
  over the next uh uh month or 2 that's it for test.
Harrison_Tang: On the test Suite.
Harrison_Tang: Right next uh Quantum save data Integrity 
  signature Suite.
Harrison_Tang: Anyone have any updates I don't think and us on.
Harrison_Tang: Okay I think we can skip we talked about this a 
  couple months back and then the afterwards we also had a 
  presentation uh.
Harrison_Tang: On The Benchmark uh the quantum post Quantum uh 
  cryptography is a benchmark right so we'll skip this 1.
Harrison_Tang: So we'll have uh if this gedu folks to kind of 
  provide the update in 2 weeks so I think we can skip this 1 as 
  well.
Harrison_Tang: Oh by the way um right now there's a uh 2 final 
  Community reports uh that uh uh will and I are trying to uh see 
  if uh.
Harrison_Tang: To publish it as a company reports from the ccg uh 
  but just want to do a last call um if people have any objection 
  so I think we did it uh a month ago or more than 2 months ago but 
  more than a month ago and there's no comments or objections so I 
  think we probably we will uh proceed to uh publish it now.
Will Abramson: https://github.com/w3c/cg-reports
Manu Sporny:  Yes that is correct um and the online interface uh 
  is on you it used to be on the community group page so you go to 
  the community group you log in and okay okay so that's all that 
  you need the the the the reason that you published in the CG 
  reports uh place is so that there's a stable identifier um that's 
  created for it and then you use the stable identifier when you 
  publish through the ccg.
Manu Sporny:  Yeah yeah yeah yeah if you if you look at um let's 
  see uh.
Manu Sporny:  Well yeah there's it it hosts them at some some URL 
  let me let me try and see if I can.
Manu Sporny: 
  https://w3c.github.io/cg-reports/json-ld/CG-FINAL-yaml-ld-20231206/
Manu Sporny:  Yeah so if if you look at like the you know Json LD 
  final URL it's on a you know GitHub IO page.
Manu Sporny:   And so.
Manu Sporny:  Whatever directory and subdirectory you create that 
  the subdirectory that you put on that URL w3c github.io CG 
  reports slash and whatever directory you create.
Manu Sporny:  That's the that's the permanent URL um hosted at 
  w3c.
Harrison_Tang: So will uh can we do it because uh like you said 
  we cannot change the w3c credentials but the main page right so.
Harrison_Tang: Yeah I thought it's the 1 of the the WordPress 
  sites and I don't think we have we have permissions to change 
  that WordPress site so yeah okay.
Manu Sporny:  They they have they provide a tool that lets you 
  change the WordPress site.
Manu Sporny:  Yep yeah it's it's like 1 of the chair tools yeah 
  it's it's kind of buried in hidden but um yeah the chairs have 
  the capability to update the WordPress site.
Harrison_Tang: Oh got it I might want to pin you and let's see 
  where the link is because uh I yeah I I don't know how.
Harrison_Tang: I need to figure out I I haven't figured out how I 
  can change that WordPress site.
Harrison_Tang: All right next uh VC render method.
Harrison_Tang: Money do you mind.
Manu Sporny:  Yep I can yep yep happy I can do the next couple I 
  think um so the VC render method is a way for issuers to express 
  how they want their credential to be rendered um on a web page in 
  a digital wallet on a piece of paper um there's even a um we 
  demoed a wireless render method so you can say how you want your 
  uh your credential to be rendered in the electromagnetic spectrum 
  like NFC Bluetooth that kind of thing um so there's this uh spec 
  that uh we're working on uh Singapore uh government uh is also um 
  uh helping uh as is Demitri um in Patrick St Louis from the 
  community uh their uh Canada is doing some work uh in the space 
  as well um there are multiple implementations we're still trying 
  to figure out the best way to do this but fundamentally I think 
  we're.
Manu Sporny:   Kind of.
Manu Sporny:  Um a having a document uh that you can uh kind of 
  uh provide a Content identifier for so like a a hash so you've 
  got to document that's on the web you also include the content 
  hash of that document so it can't be changed and then um.
Manu Sporny:  That document you use uh a certain syntax to inject 
  parts of the credential into the display so if you look at like 
  the driver's license on the left uh the driver's license number 
  the expiration date um the motor vehicle class the address that's 
  all coming straight from the verifiable credential the digitally 
  signed verifiable credential uh and the all the imagery there the 
  photo uh is also digitally signed over uh The Watermark image of 
  the photos digitally signed over and that sort of thing if you 
  look on the right we've got an emergency medical technician EMT 
  credential the ID's pulled from the verifiable credential the 
  names pulled from the verifiable credential that kind of stuff so 
  um we believe like so so this is this is out there the VC 
  playground supports it it'll issue credentials that that use it 
  we already know that there are a number of wallets that are 
  starting to use this to render the credential um in kind of a 
  higher um uh you know you know in a in a.
Manu Sporny:   In a way that that.
Manu Sporny:   There's not.
Manu Sporny:  Too much to this uh extension like it's pretty 
  straightforward uh we think it's probably going to be ready for 
  standards track in Q2 2025 so we need to make 1 more pass on the 
  specification um we need to figure out how to you know work with 
  Singapore you know on this stuff um but uh but it's going fairly 
  well um so far uh that's it for uh render method.
Harrison_Tang:  and you might.
Harrison_Tang: I'll talk about the barcodes.
Manu Sporny:  Yes uh so the barcodes um uh work is stuff that we 
  are working on with Credence ID uh so for those of you that don't 
  know who created this idea is they're the ones that do the mobile 
  driver's license TSA scanner so when you go to uh board an 
  airplane um.
Manu Sporny:  With your uh uh using your uh uh uh mobile driver's 
  license um ISO format uh and uh in the future hopefully 
  verifiable credential format um they're the ones that do the 
  readers um to ensure that the the digital version is is valid 
  they are also working on an upgrade uh to those systems that will 
  read a verifiable credential off of physical license so we're 
  upgrading uh driver's licenses um and uh uh uh permanent resin 
  cards employment authorization documents things like that to 
  include uh a verifiable credential digitally signed uh barcode 
  information uh that lets you know whether or not the physical ID 
  um has information on it that has been issued by uh a known like 
  federal or state government uh to be clear it doesn't mean that 
  you're not dealing with a cop.
Manu Sporny:  You can still copy the barcode and it's a totally 
  legit barcode um but you know at least that the individual isn't 
  like entirely made up like the biographic information is made up 
  um in the past 3 months we've added 3 Implement that support 
  verifiable credential barcodes the plan is to try and take them 
  standards track Q2 2025 um the the specifications pretty stable 
  like we've got multiple implementations um people seem to be okay 
  with the the state it's currently in um and their plans on taking 
  this production um at some point uh uh next year.
Manu Sporny:  That's it for BC barcodes I think I saw it Demetri 
  jump on the queue.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Yeah I was wondering um if you could say a few 
  words about what's the data what's what's the character limit or 
  the bite limit on uh the cool um barcode that takes up like half 
  the card.
Manu Sporny:  Yeah it's it is.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Bigger pieces can be stuff into it.
Manu Sporny:  It's it's incredibly limited 200 bytes tops and 
  that includes the digital signature Basin coated so you can you 
  can do about like 125 bytes if you're lucky so what we had to do 
  is we have to see more LD encode the payload so we get the 
  maximum bind compression um and really what it does is it signs 
  the information on the card the um either the pdf417 data which 
  is like you know first name last name address all the data in the 
  barcode it'll sign um so you'll have a hash of the data um and 
  then uh uh for like employment authorization document that front 
  barcode is just a digital signature itself and it signs the 
  information on the back of the card 1 of the biggest fraud 
  vectors as people putting different barcodes um on the back of 
  the card to the front of the card and it doesn't match the 
  information on the other side of the card so um but yeah it's 
  it's super super super super.
Manu Sporny:   Super super Limited.
Manu Sporny:  There's another 1 that you know of I think Dimitri 
  called verifiable credential QR codes that we're able to put more 
  you know verifiable credential information in but but yeah I mean 
  it's you've got 200 bytes uh realistically to work with and 64 
  bytes of that is signature in 64 or 32 bytes of it you know tends 
  to be hash and then the rest of it are things like uh status list 
  so you can actually include a a status list suspension revocation 
  um into these things as as well.
Manu Sporny:  Did that answer your question Mitri.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Yeah thank you.
Harrison_Tang: That way money can you can you uh State again like 
  what's the difference between the front and the back the back is 
  a sign the signature with the content now what's the front.
Manu Sporny:  Yeah the the its it so if we look at that top card 
  um the signature and the data uh live together so the driver's 
  license on the back that huge you know pdf417 barcode um both the 
  driver's license information is expressed in PDF 417 and the 
  signature All In 1 barcode um.
Manu Sporny:   The 1.
Manu Sporny:  On the bottom.
Manu Sporny:  More Legacy documents and by Legacy I mean like mrz 
  data uh that mrz is machine readable Zone it's the thing on the 
  bottom right that I auto blah blah blah stuff Smith John and all 
  the little left left characters uh left angle brackets um that 
  data format comes from like the 650s to 60s like it's a really 
  really super old data format and so we needed to get you know a 
  bark we needed to get a digital signature on the card somewhere 
  most of the people that do these types of cards have like a 
  fingerprint um uh on the card which we were really trying to get 
  rid of like the whole biometric fingerprint stuff we were trying 
  to get it off of the card and so we replaced that fingerprint um 
  with a QR code and that QR code is a digital signature over the 
  data on the back of the card um so the the data in the digital 
  signature are separate they don't live together um.
Manu Sporny:   If that.
Manu Sporny:  So that's the only difference between the top and 
  the bottom.
Harrison_Tang: Also the the you won't have 2 barcodes in the same 
  car this is showing like 2 kinds of implementations basically.
Manu Sporny:  Exactly right yeah sorry that was totally not 
  apparent was it yeah that's right these to 2 totally different 
  ways of using the same technology on different kind of card form 
  factors.
Manu Sporny:  To give you an idea the card on the top is 
  typically used hard on the bottom is typically used for like uh 
  passports or passport cards.
Harrison_Tang: Ah got it thank you.
Harrison_Tang: Thanks for the clarification.
Harrison_Tang: Any other questions.
Harrison_Tang: Verifiable issuers and verifiers I say.
Isaac Patka:  Yeah thank you can you hear me.
Isaac Patka:  Okay great um yeah so I'll just give a short update 
  actually so I think David all David chat also is on the call um 
  so um we are from verifiable issues and verifiers group so we 
  meet twice a month so bi-weekly and currently we are working on a 
  data model on creating verifiable issue and verify list and um 1 
  of the use case which we addressed is um the education use case 
  how education credentials are you know can be created or can be 
  verified um globally or and also the data model we just attached 
  in this link actually and uh this data model is built based on 
  Etsy um it does version 1 um but um currently we are updating 
  into a Json Json model previously that it was an XML format and 
  um and um this is a update we just want to give now actually and 
  we are already implemented this in 2 pilot projects um but with a 
  little bit verific uh.
Isaac Patka:   Little bit.
Isaac Patka:  Adoptions according to the use cases in Gaia X 
  federations use case and also or the Reggie trust as a part of a 
  undp project so both are open source projects and um yeah we are 
  trying to address um we will be publishing the first draft 
  because we are also defining some criterias which attributes are 
  mandatory and which attributes optional and also we need to do 
  some analysis and once in this is done we will be publishing the 
  first the version in the GitHub repository so that's a short 
  update and I'm open for questions and David if you want to add 
  something please feel free to do so.
Harrison_Tang: Thank you Isaac.
Harrison_Tang: Any questions or comments.
Harrison_Tang: All right lastly at the end link resources I don't 
  think there's updates here and it's not yet.
Harrison_Tang: Speak to this.
Harrison_Tang: All right um any comments or questions on the work 
  items.
Manu Sporny:  Yep yeah I think they're potentially 2 categories 
  that we might be missing um I went back and forth on trying to 
  figure out if we should add these slides but 1 of them is around 
  like the did method standardization work like that's a pretty big 
  you know kind of work topic that's that's going to be happening 
  um uh that you know this community is also involved in uh and 
  then the other 1 has to do around and this might be a more kind 
  of open question about how we structure this work the other 1 has 
  to do with vocabularies so like you know the citizenship 
  vocabulary um uh the driver's license vocabulary uh that we're 
  working on um uh uh in this group um I I would there there are um 
  at least 30 other vocabularies that I think are going to probably 
  appear at some point next year um in it feels like the way that 
  we currently struct.
Manu Sporny:  Work in the.
Manu Sporny:  Might lead to the group being overwhelmed by that 
  many parallel work items when they're really.
Manu Sporny:   Kind of.
Manu Sporny:  Under the guise of like vocabulary development and 
  so this is kind of an open question to the group how do we 
  structure vocabulary development like if we if you know 30 
  vocabulary is appear next year how does the group kind of absorb 
  all of that work um to be clear like vocabulary development um.
Manu Sporny:  Tends to not be the same as like specification 
  development it's usually you like create a first version of the 
  vocabulary it it only takes like you know maybe a day or 2 or 
  maybe at most a week of thinking to put the vocabulary together 
  um and then you can kind of build it out and and experiment with 
  it um and iterate on it um but to get a V1 out it's a pretty 
  short process um um if it's a if it's a fairly focused vocabulary 
  so.
Manu Sporny:  Just just wondering what folks think about.
Manu Sporny:   You know.
Manu Sporny:  How we tackle vocabulary development in this group 
  um the the other point to make about vocabulary development is 
  because.
Manu Sporny:  As a community have invested in decentralized ways 
  of producing these vocabularies they don't have to go standards 
  track to be useful um some of them it's you know can be useful to 
  take them standards track but many of them like marking up a 
  movie ticket it's not a very complex data model you know um uh uh 
  it doesn't really need to go through a global standardization 
  process so the question is like how do we how do we do that kind 
  of development um.
Harrison_Tang: By the way just to quickly clarify by vocabulary 
  you mean schemas right or no.
Manu Sporny:  Um yes some people call them schemas um uh we try 
  to.
Manu Sporny:  There are different names for these things right so 
  schemas sometimes people mean Json schema uh other times they 
  mean like how do I describe uh a a driver's license um right and 
  and you can use vocabulary and schemas for both vocabularies are 
  like what are the properties that go into a driver's license what 
  would you find on a driver's license uh whereas schemas are what 
  syntactically exactly you know is a what's the format of the date 
  and um you know it's a string or is it a number or you know 
  things like that so they're they're related uh but not always the 
  same.
Harrison_Tang: Basically I feel names you know I'm talking about 
  standardizing like the field names and the structure so okay 
  yeah.
Manu Sporny:  Yeah that's right yeah that's what the vocabulary 
  Works about and sometimes you also do schema development meaning 
  like the structure and the range uh you know is this field of 
  string or a number or is it a specially formatted string you know 
  things like that.
Harrison_Tang: But you know like various groups has developed 
  like for example a fifth also have a schema development like uh 
  initiative right so how do we.
Harrison_Tang: Together to to make sure that people don't do 
  double work yeah.
Harrison_Tang: I guess that's a question to figure out.
Harrison_Tang: All right Ted.
Ted Thibodeau:  I've been here too long which means that I have a 
  number of zombie work items that have repeating events in my 
  calendar um.
Ted Thibodeau:  A subscription items from external calendars.
Ted Thibodeau:  These were all created.
Ted Thibodeau:  Work items were started up or moved around a bit.
Ted Thibodeau:  And sometimes there are 2 or 3 or 4 Separate 
  calendar subscriptions for what is the same work item and these 
  may have events happening in the same time or may have multiple 
  events in the weekend 2 or 3 of them are zombies and 1 of them is 
  the real 1.
Ted Thibodeau:  Fixing this is going to require.
Ted Thibodeau:  The enlistment of people who have moved on to 
  other tasks.
Ted Thibodeau:  Like uh my prorock or or a steel there are others 
  I'm sure uh who were.
Ted Thibodeau:  Chairs of work items when they were more active 
  but now that they're less active and or even if they're just 
  different people who are sort of leading that work.
Ted Thibodeau:  The tools didn't necessarily get passed on.
Ted Thibodeau:  This probably needs all the current and former 
  chairs.
Ted Thibodeau:  To get together somehow.
Ted Thibodeau:  Figure out who has access like at least 1 of 
  these there is a Google account.
Ted Thibodeau:  Was set up for the um.
Ted Thibodeau:  Traceability work items.
Ted Thibodeau:   That link.
Ted Thibodeau:  On but nobody seems to know how to log into it 
  and so they can't fix the calendars that are associated.
Ted Thibodeau:  I don't want to just drop them from my calendar 
  subscriptions because sometimes there are things in there that 
  are actually still important.
Ted Thibodeau:  Uh even though there are zombies going on that 
  just fill up my day with alerts that I can ignore.
Ted Thibodeau:  Remembering which 1 is the 1 I should ignore and 
  not ignoring the ones that I shouldn't is challenging.
Ted Thibodeau:  I think that's clear enough.
Harrison_Tang: Yeah yeah um yeah I totally get it unfortunately 
  like I don't have access to all these accounts like especially 
  with Google ones this is why I started this uh sending emails 
  right because I have a I have X control and access to my own 
  email right so so I send out those things and the calendar system 
  will move uh we move to uh w3c calendaring system because that's 
  what they recommend us to do so uh unfortunately I'm not I'm not 
  sure how we can remove those Google calendar events because uh.
Harrison_Tang: Yeah I I couldn't I still couldn't figure out who 
  has access to them.
Ted Thibodeau:  I think in a.
Ted Thibodeau:  A lot of cases together in a zoom session or 
  whatever and.
Ted Thibodeau:  Trying to visit the page the relevant page and 
  trying to log in with the relevant ID and.
Ted Thibodeau:  If all is good in the world somebody has used 
  their password manager to save the password for the account and 
  can actually log in now.
Ted Thibodeau:  And hopefully somebody who's doing that also 
  still has the same phone number so they can get the 2-factor 
  authorization to work I mean I know this is non-trivial.
Ted Thibodeau:  It's completely out of my range of being able to 
  do it because I was never 1 of those people.
Ted Thibodeau:  And I know it's not in the range of people who 
  are current chairs because they were never 1 of those people when 
  those things were the the way it was done.
Ted Thibodeau:  Even even the current.
Ted Thibodeau:  Calendar instance of the traceability events.
Ted Thibodeau:  Does not have the correct information that it 
  still points to Ai and Mike.
Harrison_Tang: Yep I I I can you know this is this is kind of uh.
Harrison_Tang: The calendar Tech that uh I mean the habits right 
  in all organizations so I think immediately uh the for lack of a 
  better term the source of Truth is just the email agenda I send 
  out every week uh and then I'll try to figure out how we can 
  resolve this uh calendar slash that um it is going to be a little 
  bit tough it's not just with the ccg even as Tokyo.
Harrison_Tang:  I mean.
Harrison_Tang: We do a lot of we we actually spend about 10 20 
  10% of our resources resolving these contact that but even then 
  you know it's uh it's always a challenge right in all 
  organizations so we'll try we'll try.
Harrison_Tang:  to Corral people.
Harrison_Tang: Yeah so Ted if you could uh actually send us a 
  list of these uh I guess Google calendar events we can help help 
  you chase them I know the traceability 1 but I don't know the 
  other ones that that you're referring to so yeah.
Ted Thibodeau:  I'll I'll see what I can track down I know I've 
  done I've sent similar emails before and gotten nowhere there 
  have been you know a reply or 2 saying I don't have access to 
  that or I never had access to that.
Ted Thibodeau:  And then it just dies and that's.
Harrison_Tang: Yep yep um it is a I'll be very Frank it is a low 
  priority but I'll continue to try to chase uh these issues yeah.
Ted Thibodeau:  No I think important to get it right because well 
  speaking for myself.
Ted Thibodeau:  Email that you send out I don't get to unless I 
  remember I get an alert about the me about the meeting and then I 
  can go search my email for it because those emails don't result 
  in alerts and I have you know 4 million messages a day.
Harrison_Tang: So you guys do all caps does that help or not.
Harrison_Tang:  yeah that's probably.
Harrison_Tang: Also spend filters right all right well well no 
  well well your feedback is well taken.
Harrison_Tang: Yes seller Source things that I'll try to see I I 
  could uh pin those guys but uh you know sometimes people don't 
  respond then it's a little bit tough.
Harrison_Tang: All right um we'll have about 7 Minutes well do 
  you mind quickly go through that uh come meet reports that you 
  want to yeah.
Will Abramson: https://www.w3.org/community/credentials/
Manu Sporny:  Yeah I mean uh where does it say yeah I don't know 
  how to get rid of that like we we published it and then I think 
  we.
Manu Sporny:  We did a final report I think we just stopped 
  publishing drafts because it wasn't super useful right and and I 
  don't know if there's a way for you to kind of clean up that yeah 
  I that's what I do I mean I don't think it.
Manu Sporny:  Um yeah I don't I don't think it has a lot of we've 
  got the GitHub history and everything that goes back even further 
  than that um the only thing that really matters are the final 
  reports the licensing commitments um to show that like we handed 
  the document off from this group to another group um.
<olvis_e._gil_rÃ­os> Great meeting! I have a question, I remember 
  there was a link for new folks to become official members, could 
  you please share it again?
Manu Sporny:  Yeah we're missing we're missing bitstring status 
  list.
Manu Sporny:  We are missing BBs.
Manu Sporny:  Uh crypto Suite.
Manu Sporny:  I mean it's a bit late to kind of publish those 
  meaning like they were you know adopted they've already been 
  adopted if we wanted to you know.
Manu Sporny:  Have that record I think it would be good for us to 
  go back and fix that um we can always go.
<harrison_tang> you can join W3C CCG here: 
Manu Sporny:  That's right yep yep yep.
https://www.w3.org/community/credentials/participants
Manu Sporny:  Yeah so I think there's some historical stuff 
  anything that landed in the did working group or the verifiable 
  credential working group is probably fair game like did 
  resolution was incubated here it's not on there you know.
<olvis_e._gil_rÃ­os> Thanks Harrison :)!
Manu Sporny:  Yeah but I think we can basically say like we could 
  so you know we've got the rep The Source we've got the source 
  code repositories and so we can go back in time um and we can 
  publish the document at the point in time and we can tell the CG 
  report folks like hey we forgot to push it at this point in time 
  we would like to do it now as long as the chairs are like yes we 
  want to do that I think that's all all they need to hear.
Manu Sporny:  Um ideally VC barcodes VC Wireless.
Manu Sporny:  Ideally the post-quantum signature crypto Suites um 
  render method.
Manu Sporny:  Uh and uh confidence method are the ones that 
  immediately come to mind.
Manu Sporny:  Yep yep traceability is the well I mean we talked 
  about that today but traceability is the other 1.
Harrison_Tang: All right last call for any other comments or 
  questions or suggestions.
Harrison_Tang: So a quick final note uh so Kimberly will graduate 
  from the w3c ccg culture so we are looking for a nominations for 
  another culture right now we have Gillian Walsh from MIT uh DCC 
  uh as a the nomination so the if you have further.
Harrison_Tang: Not people that you want to nominate or recommend 
  just let us know uh we will try to send out this email probably 
  in the next few weeks I haven't gotten to it yet uh but uh yep 
  we're looking for a new culture starting uh beginning of next 
  year.
Harrison_Tang: All right thanks a lot thank you this concludes 
  this week's ccg meeting thanks everyone and also big thanks to uh 
  people who helped us update that uh pres uh work item updates 
  thanks a lot.
