[2021-08-24T16:01:22.191Z]	<Charles_E._Lehner>	present+
[2021-08-24T16:01:22.191Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	present+
[2021-08-24T16:01:22.192Z]	<Juan_Caballero_(Spruce)>	present+
[2021-08-24T16:01:22.674Z]	<TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com)>	present+
[2021-08-24T16:01:28.711Z]	<econnell>	present+
[2021-08-24T16:01:29.272Z]	<Bret_Jordan>	present+
[2021-08-24T16:01:45.523Z]	<Bret_Jordan>	Bret Jordan is here
[2021-08-24T16:02:01.657Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	present+
[2021-08-24T16:02:05.886Z]	<bobwyman>	present+
[2021-08-24T16:02:47.939Z]	<Taylor>	present+
[2021-08-24T16:02:52.777Z]	<Tomislav_Markovski>	present+
[2021-08-24T16:03:02.422Z]	<Mahmoud>	present+
[2021-08-24T16:03:16.220Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	present+
[2021-08-24T16:04:09.531Z]	<Geun-Hyung>	present+
[2021-08-24T16:04:40.771Z]	<Geun-Hyung>	present+
[2021-08-24T16:05:30.188Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	I would volunteer, but can't scribe today
[2021-08-24T16:06:13.443Z]	<Mahmoud>	juan theres static
[2021-08-24T16:06:16.051Z]	<Kim>	present+
[2021-08-24T16:06:24.166Z]	<by_caballero>	Scribe: by_caballero
[2021-08-24T16:06:24.166Z]	<by_caballero>	Agenda: https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-credentials/2021Aug/0359.html
[2021-08-24T16:06:36.974Z]	<by_caballero>	Topic: Introductions
[2021-08-24T16:06:49.259Z]	<Adrian_Gropper>	present+
[2021-08-24T16:06:49.410Z]	<by_caballero>	Wayne: announcements and reminders
[2021-08-24T16:06:55.812Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	q+
[2021-08-24T16:07:06.031Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	https://internetidentityworkshop.com/
[2021-08-24T16:07:08.923Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	ack Heather
[2021-08-24T16:07:26.010Z]	<Kaliya_IdentityWoman>	present+
[2021-08-24T16:07:32.195Z]	<by_caballero>	Heather: update re: CCG calendar
[2021-08-24T16:07:44.588Z]	<by_caballero>	...: Tues 7Sep and Tues 14Sep will be cancelled
[2021-08-24T16:07:49.920Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	q+ to mention DID vote ending EOM
[2021-08-24T16:08:02.468Z]	<by_caballero>	...: SVIP will have an open allday event on 14Sep and we invite people to attend that
[2021-08-24T16:08:42.943Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	ack Manu
[2021-08-24T16:08:43.996Z]	<by_caballero>	... 13-15Sept there will be three allday events, and the 14th will be open to the public, with many SVIP companies presenting, and I will be moderating a panel there
[2021-08-24T16:09:07.649Z]	<by_caballero>	Manu: quick reminder that the did-core specification is out for a vote before CR status is cemented
[2021-08-24T16:09:17.035Z]	<by_caballero>	... voting closes 31st of this month (tuesday next)
[2021-08-24T16:09:25.005Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	SVIP Demo Week, September 14-17: https://www.dhs.gov/science-and-technology/svip
[2021-08-24T16:09:47.198Z]	<by_caballero>	... many W3C member companies that rely centrally on DIDs have NOT VOTED yet, please get the word out and remind them
[2021-08-24T16:09:52.380Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	q?
[2021-08-24T16:09:55.682Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	ack Kaliya
[2021-08-24T16:10:03.247Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	Detailed information about the SVIP Demo week: https://www.dhs.gov/science-and-technology/svip-demo-week
[2021-08-24T16:10:19.603Z]	<by_caballero>	Kaliya: IIW 12-14 October, early bird ticket price closes this week!
[2021-08-24T16:10:21.588Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	q?
[2021-08-24T16:10:37.108Z]	<by_caballero>	Topic: Progress and Action Items
[2021-08-24T16:10:47.578Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/community/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3A%22action%3A+review+next%22
[2021-08-24T16:10:47.871Z]	<Kim>	present+
[2021-08-24T16:10:59.781Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	DID Core vote: https://www.w3.org/2002/09/wbs/33280/did-core-pr/
[2021-08-24T16:11:02.836Z]	<by_caballero>	Wayne: Call for status update on DID:PKH and DID:TZ respectively
[2021-08-24T16:11:13.448Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	q+ to note concern.
[2021-08-24T16:12:25.355Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	ack Manu
[2021-08-24T16:12:25.957Z]	<by_caballero>	Heather: We have not had resolution on whether/when DID Methods are appropriate work items for CCG, we will try for next week's meeting and/or initiate a mailing list thread
[2021-08-24T16:12:38.442Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	q+
[2021-08-24T16:13:05.655Z]	<by_caballero>	Manu: There are >100 DID Methods currently registered... are we ready for those floodgates to open? How many of those might want to co-develop or iterate here?
[2021-08-24T16:13:44.985Z]	<by_caballero>	... : I think things like did:web and did:key could be the watermark because they're already in wide shared use
[2021-08-24T16:13:45.479Z]	<James_Chartrand>	present+
[2021-08-24T16:13:56.789Z]	<by_caballero>	q+
[2021-08-24T16:14:05.650Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	ack Heather
[2021-08-24T16:14:16.494Z]	<by_caballero>	manu: I have deep reservations that might grow into an objection
[2021-08-24T16:14:46.983Z]	<by_caballero>	Heather: I share those concerns, and I think taking a breath to consider this in ecosystem terms, not just a problem/solution approach
[2021-08-24T16:14:58.778Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	did:pkh feels more "can be done in the CCG" than did:tz.
[2021-08-24T16:15:06.784Z]	<by_caballero>	...: Is there urgency in finding a venue for these work items?
[2021-08-24T16:15:22.771Z]	<by_caballero>	Wayne: I think PKH is more urgent and much closer to did:key
[2021-08-24T16:15:38.625Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	+1 to did : pkh being something easier to make a decision on in CCG than did : tz
[2021-08-24T16:15:38.767Z]	<by_caballero>	...: and one proposal is even to just consider it an extension of did:key
[2021-08-24T16:16:11.640Z]	<by_caballero>	heather: I will get something on paper and try for this week
[2021-08-24T16:16:22.085Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	q?
[2021-08-24T16:16:24.074Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	ack by_
[2021-08-24T16:16:43.267Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	scribe+
[2021-08-24T16:16:50.574Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	q+ to respond to Juan.
[2021-08-24T16:17:16.049Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	by_caballero: maybe it's about many CCG member users, drawing distinction between adoption & adoptability
[2021-08-24T16:17:17.605Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	ack Manu
[2021-08-24T16:17:32.013Z]	<Kayode_Ezike>	present+
[2021-08-24T16:18:17.506Z]	<by_caballero>	manu: i think the did:pkh work sounds easier to justify because it's neutral and shared; did:tz or methods incentivized to create (or manufacture) community adoption would be in a very different category for me
[2021-08-24T16:18:46.861Z]	<by_caballero>	... to me a blockchain-specific did method should be out of scope for CCG categorically
[2021-08-24T16:18:48.282Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	q?
[2021-08-24T16:18:50.560Z]	<by_caballero>	thanks manu!
[2021-08-24T16:19:21.588Z]	<by_caballero>	Topic: Bret Jordan's introduction to the JWS/CT draft spec at IETF
[2021-08-24T16:19:55.169Z]	<by_caballero>	Bret: Broadcom, CTO's office, lots of IETF and ITU work under my belt
[2021-08-24T16:20:01.359Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	Just to be clear, the chairs will discuss the CCG scope prior to sharing our recommendations with the community via the mailing list. So the leadership team will discuss next week, we will not discuss it in the main CCG call.
[2021-08-24T16:20:04.848Z]	<by_caballero>	... not much W3C yet but that can change!
[2021-08-24T16:20:31.530Z]	<by_caballero>	... here to talk about our draft spec
[2021-08-24T16:20:32.373Z]	<by_caballero>	https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/draft-jordan-jws-ct/
[2021-08-24T16:21:02.844Z]	<by_caballero>	Bret: We've done some work to enable JSON signatures to be more usable for developers
[2021-08-24T16:21:18.062Z]	<Dmitri_Zagidulin>	present+
[2021-08-24T16:21:22.417Z]	<by_caballero>	... many people in the cryptographic/infrastructure community are pushing for a whole-industry move to CBOR
[2021-08-24T16:21:46.739Z]	<by_caballero>	... but JSON is so entrenched in Web2 and there are ways we can improve it and secure it without requiring a major shift
[2021-08-24T16:22:25.959Z]	<by_caballero>	... basically we combined detached signatures and the JCS canonicalization to allow signing over clear text
[2021-08-24T16:23:21.494Z]	<by_caballero>	... passing JSON data across boundaries, even large datasets, with signatures is good, but it's hard to get signatures into the JWS standard as specified
[2021-08-24T16:24:07.572Z]	<Adrian>	present+
[2021-08-24T16:24:16.988Z]	<by_caballero>	... being able to sign objects in clear text, concatenate signatures or countersign, etc are all features that can't really be done in JWT in its basic form
[2021-08-24T16:25:07.353Z]	<by_caballero>	... for example, the I-JSON profile (which is basically almost all JSONs used) was our starting point, so rules
[2021-08-24T16:25:18.866Z]	<by_caballero>	... like no two identical keys, no arbitrary headers, etc
[2021-08-24T16:25:55.985Z]	<by_caballero>	... (slide showing the components of a standard JWS: header.payload.sig, or, in detached mode, header..sig (payload detached)
[2021-08-24T16:26:26.155Z]	<by_caballero>	... simple RAW header like {"alg":"RS256"}
[2021-08-24T16:27:20.358Z]	<by_caballero>	... example JWS in base64 with .s ; JWS was designed for authorization tokens, not for signing data
[2021-08-24T16:27:59.627Z]	<JeffO-StL>	present+
[2021-08-24T16:27:59.654Z]	<by_caballero>	... another starting point was an earlier RFC that all of us worked on, the JCS scheme (RFC-8785)
[2021-08-24T16:28:47.953Z]	<by_caballero>	... canonicalizes and stringifies JWTs into a valid JSON object with none of the whitespace and prettiness
[2021-08-24T16:29:20.561Z]	<by_caballero>	... steps in JWS/CT signing:
[2021-08-24T16:29:34.474Z]	<by_caballero>	... 1 create a JSON object, maybe even a very big one
[2021-08-24T16:29:50.953Z]	<by_caballero>	... 2 canonicalize to a string, using a library or a home-rolled canonicalization function
[2021-08-24T16:30:36.715Z]	<by_caballero>	... 3 base64 that canonicalized string (any ol' JWS library will produce the same string for payload)
[2021-08-24T16:30:55.359Z]	<by_caballero>	... 4 sign, then attach headers and signature object (both base64'd )
[2021-08-24T16:31:25.479Z]	<by_caballero>	... note: multiple signatures, metadata that can be attached to that signature string (i'll show examples of that later)
[2021-08-24T16:31:59.965Z]	<by_caballero>	... verification steps
[2021-08-24T16:32:28.349Z]	<by_caballero>	... 1 : parse the object --> header, [payload,] signature
[2021-08-24T16:32:52.896Z]	<by_caballero>	... 2 base64 decode signature
[2021-08-24T16:33:04.435Z]	<by_caballero>	... 3 fetch payload
[2021-08-24T16:33:21.541Z]	<by_caballero>	... 4 canonicalize, compare to base64 version
[2021-08-24T16:33:38.115Z]	<by_caballero>	... (scribe note: i may have bungled that last bit, check slides if you have them)
[2021-08-24T16:33:51.117Z]	<by_caballero>	... path forward
[2021-08-24T16:34:04.292Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	q+ to make a few comments / ask a few questions.
[2021-08-24T16:34:18.409Z]	<by_caballero>	... at IETF, we recently presented this to dispatch and sec-dispatch and asked it move forward through independent publication path
[2021-08-24T16:34:42.011Z]	<cel>	q+ relation to draft-erdtman-jose-cleartext-jws
[2021-08-24T16:34:42.630Z]	<by_caballero>	... some people were pulling for a new WG, but others wanted to publish it as-is and it's now in the IETF editor's queue
[2021-08-24T16:34:57.875Z]	<by_caballero>	... you can look at it here
[2021-08-24T16:34:59.820Z]	<by_caballero>	https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/draft-jordan-jws-ct/
[2021-08-24T16:35:25.993Z]	<by_caballero>	Bret: forward path is to start working on a further spec after this is published
[2021-08-24T16:35:49.586Z]	<by_caballero>	... that describes the signature object being stored in plain text
[2021-08-24T16:36:12.469Z]	<by_caballero>	... Anders has worked on related stuff for webPKI and banking contexts (plaintext signature)
[2021-08-24T16:36:26.481Z]	<by_caballero>	... we've also worked on related work at OASIS in the security playbook WG
[2021-08-24T16:36:51.651Z]	<by_caballero>	... , where we are particularly interested in signature metadata that exposes signatures to graph analysis
[2021-08-24T16:37:10.969Z]	<by_caballero>	... so for us, this cleartext RFC is the second of three RFCs that build on each other
[2021-08-24T16:37:23.721Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	q?
[2021-08-24T16:37:23.832Z]	<agropper>	q+
[2021-08-24T16:37:26.474Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	ack manu
[2021-08-24T16:37:28.497Z]	<by_caballero>	... i should break for questions now
[2021-08-24T16:37:51.140Z]	<by_caballero>	manu: this is fantastic stuff, thank you for bringing this!
[2021-08-24T16:38:05.709Z]	<by_caballero>	... my first question is have you looked at the linked data proof signature work? i see a lot of similarities
[2021-08-24T16:38:16.430Z]	<by_caballero>	https://w3c-ccg.github.io/ld-proofs/
[2021-08-24T16:38:29.517Z]	<by_caballero>	Bret: I have looked it briefly and, tbh, less closely than Anders, who couldn't be here
[2021-08-24T16:38:48.739Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	q+ to note similarities and where we are -- work started in 2015, W3C group to move it forward, etc.
[2021-08-24T16:38:56.674Z]	<by_caballero>	... I got involved on the JCS side to edit and promote the work already done and get traction for it
[2021-08-24T16:39:01.357Z]	<TallTed>	present+
[2021-08-24T16:39:14.104Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	q?
[2021-08-24T16:39:15.043Z]	<by_caballero>	... and i can see shared goals and problems
[2021-08-24T16:39:25.302Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	q+ Kim
[2021-08-24T16:39:57.042Z]	<by_caballero>	cel: i was looking at the earlier draft from 2018 and was wondering what changed over 2 years and 4 drafts
[2021-08-24T16:40:53.600Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	q?
[2021-08-24T16:40:56.345Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	ack cel
[2021-08-24T16:40:58.284Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	ack agropper
[2021-08-24T16:41:06.890Z]	<by_caballero>	Bret: Anders had all this WebPKI and banking experience and problems to solve, I had my cyberthreat intelligence and cybersec playbook and broadcom problems that I brought to the table...
[2021-08-24T16:41:22.253Z]	<by_caballero>	... and yeah, it's evolved a bit but mostly for clarity, not major changes in approach
[2021-08-24T16:41:28.853Z]	<by_caballero>	Adrian: I have a question for the group
[2021-08-24T16:41:42.406Z]	<by_caballero>	... about expectations about signatures
[2021-08-24T16:41:44.202Z]	<Dmitri_Zagidulin>	present+
[2021-08-24T16:42:24.846Z]	<TallTed>	q+ to ask for link to slidedeck and/or dispatch to mailing list (or github associated with minutes?) for permanent archive
[2021-08-24T16:42:42.307Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	q?
[2021-08-24T16:42:46.361Z]	<by_caballero>	... but I'm wondering how directly the end-user can interact with signatures; is this a form of signature verification that is optimized to live in a wallet, a browser, or a third place?
[2021-08-24T16:42:50.774Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	ack Manu
[2021-08-24T16:43:25.967Z]	<by_caballero>	Manu: I like the solution, there's 80% overlap with the LDP work IMHO, and there's a W3C working group trying to standardize that further
[2021-08-24T16:44:01.805Z]	<by_caballero>	... and the delta between what W3C is trying to push forward and what you're proposing are close enough that I think aligning might avoid major incompatibility that differ minorly
[2021-08-24T16:44:37.268Z]	<Dmitri_Zagidulin>	alignment wouldn't be a super huge lift.. there'd need to be a field specifying the canonicalization algorithm (not assuming JCS)
[2021-08-24T16:44:43.222Z]	<by_caballero>	Bret: I think there is definitely an place for alignment! our current draft is somewhat backwards-looking
[2021-08-24T16:44:55.467Z]	<by_caballero>	... and oriented towards doing what can be done without any breaking changes or new tooling
[2021-08-24T16:45:07.002Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	q?
[2021-08-24T16:45:15.660Z]	<by_caballero>	... whereas our next draft (3rd in the series) would be a great place to align with the LPD work on what goes into those clear-text signature objects
[2021-08-24T16:45:17.605Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	ack Kim
[2021-08-24T16:45:18.732Z]	<by_caballero>	q?
[2021-08-24T16:45:22.594Z]	<by_caballero>	q+
[2021-08-24T16:45:38.536Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	potentially also a field specifying the path to target obj instead of assuming direct parent of "signature" property is it
[2021-08-24T16:45:50.861Z]	<Dmitri_Zagidulin>	+1
[2021-08-24T16:46:01.560Z]	<by_caballero>	Kim: I want to come back to a difference with LDP
[2021-08-24T16:46:05.409Z]	<Dmitri_Zagidulin>	present+
[2021-08-24T16:46:33.044Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	q+ to ask how JOSE core architects responded to "canonicalization".
[2021-08-24T16:46:39.966Z]	<by_caballero>	...: specifically, the design constraint that no "weird new standards" or changes to envelopes or standard tooling really spoke to me
[2021-08-24T16:47:12.912Z]	<by_caballero>	...: because we have had a lot of problems with @Context and other things that don't quite fit the model of existing systems
[2021-08-24T16:47:39.587Z]	<Dmitri_Z>	present+
[2021-08-24T16:48:16.788Z]	<by_caballero>	Bret: I think my approach was informed by years in the stix and taxii communities , walking the floor of RSA and speaking to 100s of CTOs
[2021-08-24T16:48:46.183Z]	<by_caballero>	... and the resounding feedback from all of them was "no new things, we can add a library but not replace old ones"
[2021-08-24T16:49:36.399Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	q?
[2021-08-24T16:49:39.924Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	ack TallTed
[2021-08-24T16:49:41.517Z]	<by_caballero>	... we have been testing it with streams, with multi-GB JSON files, and have gotten this to work without disqualifying anyone's data models or requiring any profile more restrictive than ijson
[2021-08-24T16:49:59.257Z]	<by_caballero>	tallted: i wanted to ask for the slide deck be linked or added to the archive space
[2021-08-24T16:50:32.407Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	q?
[2021-08-24T16:50:47.194Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	ack by_c
[2021-08-24T16:51:52.351Z]	<by_caballero_>	bret: again, this spec is just a stepping stone; we've already started working on the draft of the signature metadata
[2021-08-24T16:52:09.920Z]	<by_caballero_>	... but won't publish a draft until this is out of the editor's queue
[2021-08-24T16:52:21.555Z]	<by_caballero_>	... here is an example of the signature block (screenshares)
[2021-08-24T16:52:56.390Z]	<by_caballero_>	... I want to hear from this community what properties should go into this signature block
[2021-08-24T16:53:08.450Z]	<by_caballero_>	... this draft establishes possibilities
[2021-08-24T16:53:13.722Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	ack Manu
[2021-08-24T16:54:02.802Z]	<by_caballero_>	Manu: I want to reiterate that the LDP group at W3C is forming to decide and propose exactly what you're asking-- the potential (optional and mandatory) contents of the signature block
[2021-08-24T16:54:31.371Z]	<by_caballero_>	... and I was curious about the canonicalization issue
[2021-08-24T16:54:53.510Z]	<by_caballero_>	... which lots of people push back on (the "don't you remember XMLSignatures?" crowd)
[2021-08-24T16:55:12.039Z]	<by_caballero_>	... is canonicalization with support possible?
[2021-08-24T16:55:53.025Z]	<by_caballero_>	Bret: We took the JCS spec to the JOSE WG and BoF meetings, and people kept saying no no no use CBOR instead, abandon hope all ye who would canonicalize
[2021-08-24T16:56:08.821Z]	<by_caballero_>	... but coming back with benchmarked, performant working code changed the conversation a bit
[2021-08-24T16:56:31.235Z]	<by_caballero_>	... and so did litigating over and over again that XML's problems were not in [I-]JSON
[2021-08-24T16:56:54.814Z]	<by_caballero_>	... there is a reason almost no one uses JSON that isn't I-JSON; canonicalizing I-JSON was a lot easier
[2021-08-24T16:57:04.744Z]	<by_caballero_>	... and publishing it independently also helped
[2021-08-24T16:57:25.058Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	q?
[2021-08-24T16:57:29.292Z]	<by_caballero_>	... although 1/3 of the people in the dispatch group is starting to see value here
[2021-08-24T16:57:37.390Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	q+ to say we're very interested in supporting the owrk
[2021-08-24T16:57:39.751Z]	<by_caballero_>	... and did their humming thing
[2021-08-24T16:57:59.494Z]	<by_caballero_>	... so, not quite enough to form a WG but enough to say there's real support, and close to WG critical hum mass
[2021-08-24T16:58:40.201Z]	<by_caballero_>	... I used to tell Anders that our goal was handing this to a product manager, whose architect could assess it as a weekend's work
[2021-08-24T16:58:52.997Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	ack Manu
[2021-08-24T16:58:58.734Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	q+
[2021-08-24T16:59:00.172Z]	<by_caballero_>	... we have been getting traction by trying to keep the spec "weekendy" and not worrying too much about critical mass in the IETF
[2021-08-24T16:59:31.125Z]	<by_caballero_>	Manu: Let me just say explicitly that we are very supportive of this work and looking to contribute.  I've been working with Anders for a decade, and I know how hard it's been to get this work this far
[2021-08-24T16:59:48.070Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	ack Wayne
[2021-08-24T17:00:00.891Z]	<by_caballero_>	Bret: I think this would be very valuable to the market and enable so many interesting new possibilities
[2021-08-24T17:00:02.248Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	+1 to that
[2021-08-24T17:00:34.145Z]	<by_caballero_>	Wayne: One note I will make is that canonicalization has enabled clear text signatures and we are happy to see that pattern repeated
[2021-08-24T17:00:38.841Z]	<by_caballero_>	thanks all
