[2024-10-28T14:45:11.223Z]	<Ildiko_Mazar> agenda: https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-vc-edu/2024Oct/0005.html

[2024-10-28T14:45:59.223Z]	<Ildiko_Mazar> Good morning, good afternoon everyone, welcome to today's W3C Verifiable Credentials for Education task force call, on Monday, October the 28th. Let's get started with the housekeeping items. IP Note: Anyone can participate in these calls. However, all substantive contributions to any Credentials Community Group Work Items must originate from members of the CCG with full IPR agreements signed. You can find the link to this in the meeting invites. You'll need to have a W3C account, that is also something easy to do online. Moving on to call notes. Please note that these meetings are recorded. We have a robot transcriber and we also make audio and video recordings, that are archived and available online. If you want to speak, please raise your hand, or add yourself to the queue by typing “q+” in the chat. And please be brief if you have a question to ask, we want to maximise the time for conversations. Thank you. Now to Introductions & Reintroductions. If we have any new people in the call, or somebody would like to reintroduce themselves, please feel free to take the floor. If nobody wants to take the floor, we can move on to announcements and reminders. Anyone has events or things that happened that people should be aware of, again, please queue yourself up and share the news with us. Now to the main agenda topic, that is Future of Learning & Working track's Office Hour.
[2024-10-28T14:55:23.486Z]	<Ildiko_Mazar>	present+
[2024-10-28T14:55:23.487Z]	<Perrine_de_Coëtlogon>	present+
[2024-10-28T15:01:01.583Z]	<Raj>	present+
[2024-10-28T15:01:03.645Z]	<TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com)>	present+
[2024-10-28T15:01:31.110Z]	<Kim>	present+
[2024-10-28T15:01:32.209Z]	<Sharon_Leu>	present+
[2024-10-28T15:01:49.886Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	present+
[2024-10-28T15:01:57.623Z]	<Raj>	Hello everyone
[2024-10-28T15:02:01.372Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	Hello all
[2024-10-28T15:02:27.845Z]	<Ildiko_Mazar>	Hello everybody, welcome to today's VC EDU Task Force call
[2024-10-28T15:02:30.563Z]	<Dmitri_Zagidulin>	present+
[2024-10-28T15:03:07.237Z]	<Dmitri_Zagidulin>	present+
[2024-10-28T15:03:11.859Z]	<Transcriber>	scribe+
[2024-10-28T15:03:11.860Z]	<Transcriber>	Meeting: education
[2024-10-28T15:04:19.240Z]	<Eric_Sembrat>	present+
[2024-10-28T15:06:28.291Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Hey elico this is Carrie uh Carrie lamoy I just wanted to jump on Kim is going to come back she's going to rejoin she was having some jitsi issues.
[2024-10-28T15:06:44.362Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Um I think I believe the um the aim of today's call is just to see if anybody has any questions and to see if um we should review um any of the tasks and how to submit them I don't see too many folks on here so I'm not sure.
[2024-10-28T15:06:45.859Z]	<Eric_Sembrat>	present+
[2024-10-28T15:06:50.700Z]	<Kim>	present+
[2024-10-28T15:06:57.328Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: If there will be anybody with questions but um I just want to open the floor and see um if anybody does I think when Kim comes on she might be able to give you a status as to how things are going so far.
[2024-10-28T15:07:01.762Z]	<Naomi>	present+
[2024-10-28T15:07:05.302Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Um so I don't I pause there and see does anybody have any questions about the hackathon or the projects you're working on.
[2024-10-28T15:07:45.876Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Yeah looks like we have 401 participants but that's in the hackathon generally I'm not sure how many folks are participating in the education when that would be great to know Kim may know that when she comes on.
[2024-10-28T15:07:58.482Z]	<Alex_H>	present+
[2024-10-28T15:08:45.870Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	https://difhackathon.devpost.com/?ref_feature=challenge&ref_medium=discover
[2024-10-28T15:08:46.412Z]	<Transcriber>	Kim: I'm here now and yeah hi um sorry about that I uh yeah didn't work in the app but um yeah so we we actually won't know the Full Count until the very end um we do get some uh early submissions but they're sort of um you know not enough to make statistically significant predictions 1 thing I wanted to emphasize here well we we're getting a lot of a lot of participants um but 1 thing about this track is we have so many prizes that I want to make sure people know that it's not too late to get started so we still have a week left in the hackathon and um you know some of the the challenges are actually you can be done fairly quickly so um yeah not too late to sign up and um I the previous 1 we shared all the links to get.
[2024-10-28T15:08:47.354Z]	<Transcriber>	Kim:  started so.
[2024-10-28T15:08:47.836Z]	<Transcriber>	Kim: I'm not at the.
[2024-10-28T15:08:52.919Z]	<Transcriber>	Kim: Now but uh yes thank you Carrie that's that's where.
[2024-10-28T15:09:02.851Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Yeah Kim I'm happy to share any links to other things if you'd like me to I know you're on the road right now.
[2024-10-28T15:09:20.760Z]	<Transcriber>	Kim: Yes uh thank you and so did we have any um questions yet or should I should we just start with a review of what we're doing I I can t that up if if so I don't see any questions yet.
[2024-10-28T15:09:31.400Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: I don't think we have any specific questions yet I know there were a couple of questions in Discord but we're kind of having a thread of discussions over there so um how about we do what you suggest and then um see if anything comes up.
[2024-10-28T15:09:37.938Z]	<Transcriber>	Kim: Yeah it sounds good so I can give a some context real quickly.
[2024-10-28T15:09:46.028Z]	<Transcriber>	Kim: Yeah the hackathon well the diff hackathon it's about uh getting people to build.
[2024-10-28T15:10:02.058Z]	<Transcriber>	Kim: Applications of decentralized identity so it's a really good opportunity to do whether it's a a side project that you've always wanted to do um and we have a lot of good uh uh tracks this year so we have.
[2024-10-28T15:10:11.798Z]	<Transcriber>	Kim: The education future of education and Workforce we have some focus on um verifiable Ai and.
[2024-10-28T15:10:51.507Z]	<Transcriber>	Kim: All of the nuances involved with that also hospitality and travel and reusable identity so a lot of interesting uh themes all of which decentralized identity can be uh Technologies and standards can be used to make meaningful impact so in the future of education and Workforce challenge we are building on the progress and success of the JFS jmf plugfest uh series of challenges and for reference those were uh focused on.
[2024-10-28T15:10:58.888Z]	<Rachel_Donahue_(she/they)_-_Digital_Promise>	present+
[2024-10-28T15:11:07.413Z]	<TimG>	present+
[2024-10-28T15:11:21.493Z]	<Transcriber>	Kim: Holder wallets uh verifiers and issuers to you know where the rubber meets the rub prove interoperability of these standards that we're building so for reference you know we all know that we're building according to standards verifiable credentials decentralized identifiers uh chappie or ovf uh for V VC VP but.
[2024-10-28T15:11:21.985Z]	<Transcriber>	Kim:  when it comes.
[2024-10-28T15:12:13.022Z]	<Alex_H>	present+
[2024-10-28T15:12:22.574Z]	<Transcriber>	Kim: To actually proving it out it turns out that people can interpret the standards differently they can combine them in different ways so jfa plugfest was very helpful for getting a set of issuers verifiers um uh holders to actually demonstrate that this they can use the standards to achieve interoperability and through that a lot of artifacts were built from the jmf plugfest those include um what we call profiles which are selections of Standards along with other requirements or samples to actually prove out flows uh tools sets like the VC playground that would actually show here's a sample um open badge V3 verifiable credential format um and just a wide range of other resources so that.
[2024-10-28T15:12:23.040Z]	<Transcriber>	Kim:  what is the.
[2024-10-28T15:12:37.825Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	Link to this strand: https://blog.identity.foundation/edu-hackathon-2024/
[2024-10-28T15:12:41.425Z]	<Transcriber>	Kim: For the verify potential future of education and Workforce hackathon um the the really nice thing about that is it lowers the barrier to entry to this hackathon track because it's a robust set of tools and um.
[2024-10-28T15:12:59.941Z]	<Transcriber>	Kim: Um you know specifications profiles that let people see how to get started so rather than build the all the tooling from scratch they have these components that they can just start using they can use a wallet or a test issuer things like that.
[2024-10-28T15:13:09.899Z]	<Transcriber>	Kim: So um and then so building on that we carved out 3 um kind of I'll call them series of challenges.
[2024-10-28T15:13:10.140Z]	<Transcriber>	Kim:  1 is.
[2024-10-28T15:13:22.907Z]	<Transcriber>	Kim: Really based on the transformation enabled by decentralized identity Technologies and what can happen when people can own their working and learning records.
[2024-10-28T15:13:52.222Z]	<Transcriber>	Kim: The second 1 is a set of tooling challenges and um sorry I may need to consult something read so I think we where we did that and Carrie chime in if I'm missing it but the second 1 I think is focused on the um browser plug-in plus the uh with the what is it called the um learner credential wallet render method is that right Terry.
[2024-10-28T15:14:19.059Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: The the Second Challenge is you're close you're very close um the Second Challenge is to build 1 um multiple language support I'll just read the the statement here to uh so it's multiple language support promote crossborder Mobility by enabling educational credentials to be meaningfully used internationally build a tool that constructs VCS in any language with a special emphasis on non-latin scripts and this is using the render method attribute.
[2024-10-28T15:14:36.589Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Other 1 is the browser integration and this is where we are thinking about how can we enhance convenience and usability um with a browser plug-in for displaying a verifying BCS and we're also thinking that render method would be um a great use a great application for this.
[2024-10-28T15:14:51.277Z]	<Transcriber>	Kim: Great and then um the third 1 is the um I think that's where we have a learner credential wallet 1 and maybe something else.
[2024-10-28T15:14:56.743Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Um yeah so we um we were this is sorry I didn't mean to interrupt you okay.
[2024-10-28T15:14:58.137Z]	<Transcriber>	Kim: Oh yeah no go ahead.
[2024-10-28T15:15:58.440Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Actually this is where we also kind of putting an emphasis on render method 1 to um see if we could use render method to inform wallets how they should display credentials um we put this 1 in because we we know that there's like so many properties that could be displayed in a credential and it's a very small screen and 1 of the things that came out of plugfest was how do we how do we like how do we display the credentials in the way that makes sense they can't just display all the way all the the same way all the time right so in the learner credential wallet we are only right now displaying the required fields of open Badges and we know that there's a lot more that could be displayed so 1 of the the opportunities here is to test that out and to show us how you would do that um if you know if you want to do that and then the other 1 is doing something similar with verify or plus verify or plus is a web verifier for credentials and right now it also in other open source software um.
[2024-10-28T15:15:59.630Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie:  from the DC.
[2024-10-28T15:16:38.102Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Now displaying you know the required elements of open badges 3.0 and we think there could be more that could be displayed in there and the render method seems to be a really interesting way to explore this and and those of you who aren't so interested so um informed about render method is it's a way to put a template inside of the signed credential that says hey here's like different ways that you could display this credential so it could be an array of templates it could be here's 1 for the wallet here's 1 for a PDF here's web from a web display and um we just want to see like how people would um implement this and and try this out.
[2024-10-28T15:16:41.908Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Open Badges and for Education credentials.
[2024-10-28T15:16:57.974Z]	<Transcriber>	Kim: So the last thing I'll add is um you know especially as we get to the last 2 challenges um you know you still have enough time to do those and and you know there's a.
[2024-10-28T15:17:14.861Z]	<Transcriber>	Kim: Chance you can get some good prices out of it we have a lot of prizes for you know each tier and honorable mentions so um it's really great way to get involved and you know refresh your your coding chops.
[2024-10-28T15:17:18.854Z]	<Transcriber>	Kim: So yeah do we have any questions yet.
[2024-10-28T15:18:32.972Z]	<Transcriber>	Kim: Yeah um we use that for some of the projects that are you know bigger in Scopes to say like maybe the first maybe the first challenge set of of this track where they're wanting to work with others to you know maybe they're good at coding but they're not so good at designing or kind of organizing things end to end so um yeah we do have a challenge a a channel called find team I think in the Discord where people can advertise their availability and um you know sort of find other people with complimentary interest.
[2024-10-28T15:18:55.040Z]	<Transcriber>	Kim: For a while 1 of the sponsors was uh Vitos was organizing a kind of form they had a forum link they probably still have it up where you can enter some more details about what tracks you're interested in what your skills are what you're looking for but um if you're wanting to just move fast to find a team channel is a good place to start.
[2024-10-28T15:19:00.691Z]	<Perrine_de_Coetlogon>	present+
[2024-10-28T15:19:28.578Z]	<Transcriber>	Kim: None yet um the yeah we will only see at the end we will have a final um you know kind of uh what is it called the final award ceremony all of that where we'll get to see uh the winners and then also.
[2024-10-28T15:19:42.045Z]	<Transcriber>	Kim: You know especially I think for this track it will be interesting to curate and reuse some for future jmf plugfest.
[2024-10-28T15:20:33.749Z]	<Transcriber>	Kim: Events so we did make sure that the uh source code license is you know mitt so it's permissive so we can reuse so I think that's 1 thing that we're really excited for with this track is the ability to benefit the whole line of jmf plugfest effort and and how this could benefit future ones um so yeah check in it keep checking in with us I think um a good way to stay up to date would be just joining the Discord and then also we can join uh the a VC edu call um in the future maybe you know I know you guys are are planned out for a while but um you know if we did something December uh something like that I think we would have enough information to come report back on what we found.
[2024-10-28T15:20:51.038Z]	<Ildiko_Mazar>	I think that would be great to see some of these solutions demoed at one of our future calls
[2024-10-28T15:21:04.070Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Hey um this is Carrie again I'm wondering I know this is a small group here today but there's a whole lot of people traveling to Mountain View for the internet identity workshop and I suspect there will be people there who are participating in the hackathon so I just wanted to mention that here.
[2024-10-28T15:21:07.577Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Also at DCC Engineers will be there too.
[2024-10-28T15:21:07.792Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie:  if anybody.
[2024-10-28T15:21:10.601Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Is stuck and has some questions.
[2024-10-28T15:21:13.572Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: I'm sure they'll be helpful.
[2024-10-28T15:21:42.589Z]	<Transcriber>	Kim: Great call out yeah and lymari will be doing a hackathon session during IBEW she's going to be reporting on the success so far um you know what's been going on so um that might be a good 1 we'll coordinate with the DCC Engineers on that to make sure we can time it appropriately we could we could also turn it into a ask me anything session as well if people do have questions about it.
[2024-10-28T15:21:45.574Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: That's a great idea thank you.
[2024-10-28T15:21:56.675Z]	<Transcriber>	Kim: So yeah I guess you know we don't have to um go on.
[2024-10-28T15:22:11.387Z]	<Transcriber>	Kim: I think we we wanted to just come in and check in answer any questions and raise your hand if you have something you want to discuss um but otherwise we can we can end early-ish.
[2024-10-28T15:23:03.307Z]	<Transcriber>	Kim: I forgot it was in the time zone Vortex period I guess that will be corrected as of next week and yes he we interpret the silence as just uh stunned awe at our magnificence.
[2024-10-28T15:23:04.535Z]	<Naomi>	lol!
[2024-10-28T15:23:08.230Z]	<Transcriber>	Kim: Terry and I are used to that.
[2024-10-28T15:23:10.233Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	:)
[2024-10-28T15:23:16.550Z]	<Naomi>	:heart: :heart:
[2024-10-28T15:23:48.199Z]	<Ildiko_Mazar>	That's true, many of us Europeans are out of office this week
[2024-10-28T15:24:02.998Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	Hello Perrine! 

University of Lille is a DCC member.
[2024-10-28T15:24:37.857Z]	<Sharon_Leu>	That is exciting. Can't wait to hear the update and lessons learned.
[2024-10-28T15:26:48.947Z]	<Transcriber>	Kim: Yes thank you pairing an amazing work I can't wait to hear about it and um yeah and thank you it'll go for asking us back and we're looking forward to giving a report out at the end and showing off the amazing things that were built.
[2024-10-28T15:26:50.124Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	Let's talk soon Perrine!!
[2024-10-28T15:27:17.255Z]	<Naomi>	thank you!
[2024-10-28T15:27:21.798Z]	<Sharon_Leu>	Thanks all!
[2024-10-28T15:27:23.930Z]	<Perrine_de_Coetlogon>	Indeed, I was about to send you a mail this morning!
