Thanks to Our Robot Overlords for scribing this week!

The transcript for the call is now available here:

https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/2025-02-25/

Full text of the discussion follows for W3C archival purposes.
Audio of the meeting is available at the following location:

https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/2025-02-25/audio.ogg

A video recording is also available at:

https://meet.w3c-ccg.org/archives/w3c-ccg-weekly-2025-02-25.mp4

----------------------------------------------------------------
W3C CCG Weekly Teleconference Transcript for 2025-02-25

Agenda:
  https://www.w3.org/Search/Mail/Public/advanced_search?hdr-1-name=subject&hdr-1-query=%5BAGENDA&period_month=Feb&period_year=2025&index-grp=Public__FULL&index-type=t&type-index=public-credentials&resultsperpage=20&sortby=date
Topics:
  1. <Cryptographic Event Logs>
Organizer:
  Harrison Tang, Kimberly Linson, Will Abramson
Scribe:
  Our Robot Overlords
Present:
  TallTed // Ted Thibodeau (he/him) (OpenLinkSw.com), Harrison 
  Tang, Manu Sporny, Rob Padula, Joe Andrieu, Erica Connell, Markus 
  Sabadello, Nate Otto, Nis Jespersen , Rashmi Siravara, Brian, 
  Will Abramson, Justin Howard, Bob Wyman, Tim Bloomfield, Vanessa, 
  Dmitri Zagidulin, Jeff O - HumanOS, Chandi Cumaranatunge, 
  Geun-Hyung Kim, Wolf McNally, Kayode Ezike, James Chartrand, 
  Denken, Ariel, David I. Lehn, Benjamin Young, Nivas, Steve M, 
  Robert Long, David Chadwick

Our Robot Overlords are scribing.
Harrison_Tang: Well welcome welcome everyone for uh to this 
  week's w3c ccg meeting uh today we're very excited to have mu 
  here back again and also Brian uh to uh talk about cryptographic 
  event logs.
Harrison_Tang: And uh but before that I just want to quickly go 
  over some administrative stuff um first of all just a quick 
  reminder for the code of ethics and professional conduct uh just 
  want to make sure we have constructive and respectful 
  conversations.
Harrison_Tang: Next uh a quick note about the intellectual 
  property uh anyone can participate in these calls have all 
  substantive contribution to any ccg core guidance must be member 
  of the ccg with full IPR agreement sign.
Harrison_Tang: So if you have any questions about the w3c account 
  or the community contributor license agreement uh please feel 
  free to reach out to any of the cultures.
Harrison_Tang: All right a quick note about the calls.
Harrison_Tang: We uh all the calls are being automatically 
  transcribed and we will publish the uh meeting minutes and the 
  audio and video recordings uh in the next day or 2.
Harrison_Tang: Well you said Gigi Gigi chat I do the speakers 
  doing the call so you can type in Q Plus to add yourself to the 
  queue or cue minus to be moved.
Harrison_Tang: All right I just want to take a quick moment for 
  the introductions and we introductions so if you're new to the 
  community where you haven't been active and want to say hello uh 
  feel free to just unmute.
Harrison_Tang: Right I think some people are feeling shy but it's 
  okay.
Harrison_Tang: Um next uh announcements and reminders uh so if 
  you have any announcements uh about the identity related or Open 
  Standards work uh feel free to just uh.
Harrison_Tang:  mute the word.
Manu Sporny:  Yeah just 1 item um we uh announced the data 
  Integrity kind of group uh loose group meeting um uh last Friday 
  so Friday at 10:00 am Eastern um we have some um we're just kind 
  of getting together it's a loose kind of community of people 
  working on data Integrity related things getting together and 
  talking about how they can move their specifications forward uh 
  way more people than we were expecting showed up last Friday 
  which was great um but it also kind of raised the question of 
  like okay like what kind of work are we going to be doing in that 
  group so right now we are definitely going to continue to work on 
  um zkp and BBs style like data Integrity Suites we still need to 
  get that work done and shipped to a global standard um uh last 
  Friday uh our Italian colleagues uh showed up that are working on 
  a post-quantum.
<tallted_//_ted_thibodeau_(he/him)_(openlinksw.com)> group 
  calendar/page link?
Manu Sporny:  Sweet so um Andrea from dine uh in Fork bomb uh was 
  there along with his team uh to talk about um uh things that you 
  know they'd like to focus on um will was there to talk about um 
  or you know will will was there and I think we're going to start 
  talking about some of the uh the crypto Suite uh he's been 
  working on along with um uh se26 K1 and Shor signatures um and 
  then there was of course interest in ZK snarks and CK Starks and 
  and that type of privacy preserving kind of um mechanism so um 
  and then of course during this week we saw the selective 
  redaction um uh conversation also happen so there's a lot of 
  discussion that's happening and we have those meetings weekly 
  every Friday at 10:00 am Eastern so if you're interested in the 
  work uh please drop in uh we are trying to figure it out and 
  trying to figure out the best way to structure all those.
Manu Sporny:   All those work.
Manu Sporny:  We move forward um.
Manu Sporny:  But yeah just just that as a if you're interested 
  uh please join.
Manu Sporny:  Um Ted you asked for.
Manu Sporny:  Group calendar link I sent it out to the ccg um I 
  think as a as a meeting invite so it should be there and if it's 
  not let me know and I'll try to.
Manu Sporny:   Push it out.
Manu Sporny:   That's it.
<harrison_tang> @Ted  7:00 – 7:30am
Will Abramson: 
  https://dcdpr.github.io/data-integrity-schnorr-secp256k1/
Will Abramson:  Sure yeah that reminds me uh I mean it's great 
  timing just looks like like last week I think it was last week I 
  posted to the mailing list some work we've been doing with DCd 
  and that is just to develop this new data Integrity crypto suite 
  for sep using schnorr signatures so basically anyone with you 
  know keys they use in Bitcoin would be able to use these keys to.
Will Abramson:  Sign verifiable credentials for example.
Will Abramson:  Yeah and it's kind of.
Will Abramson:   I mean.
Will Abramson:  I think it's pretty that I like to have some 
  implementations that kind of work in uh I'd love to work with 
  manager and get it integrated into some of.
Will Abramson:  That digital bizarre libraries but also I think 
  within the next few weeks probably we'll put a formal proposal 
  together to move this is a proper work item under the ccg uh I 
  just haven't got to do that yet.
Harrison_Tang: Great thanks well thanks Manny.
Harrison_Tang: In other uh announcements or reminders.
<tallted_//_ted_thibodeau_(he/him)_(openlinksw.com)> found it — 
  https://www.w3.org/mid/calendar-6b933a6a-78f9-4bf4-b49d-df6e53c24c57@google.com
Harrison_Tang: Any updates on the work kind.
Harrison_Tang: So uh next week uh we will actually have a team 
  and Sam uh from Google to talk about digital credentials API so 
  digital credentials API Charter actually has been approved and it 
  will proceed uh and uh came and said will actually provide an 
  update about digital credentials API uh and just a quick note 
  digital credentials API is uh basically an API that allows you to 
  access digital credentials from the wallet and there has been 
  discussions about um.
Harrison_Tang: Know um changing the fasti and Federate 
  credentials management API that browser support to uh kind of the 
  wallet self Sovereign identity model so so I think they will talk 
  more about it uh so stay tuned uh next week and then the week 
  after we will have the uh open Agenda and uh q1 2025 review as 
  well as the work item update so um I'm just gonna paint the 
  different work item leaders uh again uh to help us like update 
  the presentation deck which I sent out um so that we can actually 
  have a no.
Harrison_Tang: Uh next next.
Harrison_Tang: Tuesday how much is that.
Harrison_Tang: Calls for introductions reintroductions 
  announcements reminders and work item related stuff.
Harrison_Tang: Cool let's get to the main agenda so uh again very 
  excited to have Manu and Brian here to talk about a need that the 
  discussion on cryptographic event logs I think there has been 
  several threads about this topic and uh as M you have described 
  could the graphic event logs are like local blockchains that 
  record and digital sign changes to data right but without the 
  need for uh distributed networks or consensus algorithms or 
  cryptography which could cry cryptocurrency which is uh.
Harrison_Tang: Topic of debate right not community so without 
  further Ado man please take it away.
Manu Sporny:  Awesome thank you Harrison um.

Topic: <Cryptographic Event Logs>

Manu Sporny:  All right and uh uh uh Brian uh richer um very 
  graciously uh uh agreed to co-present this uh with me because 
  Brian's also very um involved uh in um some of the did web VH 
  work and a variety of other uh cryptographic event log uh style 
  things um I will also mention that before we go into any of this 
  that like we're still all figuring this out um I don't think that 
  there's like a cohesive concrete plan on how we're going to get 
  all of this stuff to work together and that's like we're kind of 
  presenting it now it's it's pretty rough um but the hope is to 
  you know um share what we've learned so far with the rest of the 
  community with the hope that some of you uh join us and help us 
  uh make this stuff uh better uh successful all that kind of stuff 
  so um uh while we're calling these things cryptographic event 
  logs uh today they're called other things.
Manu Sporny:   In other.
Manu Sporny:  And as I'll kind of go into uh this isn't super new 
  um some concepts are are kind of new and the way we're putting it 
  together is is maybe new but um cryptographic event logs have 
  been a thing for a very long time even pre-b blockchain uh 
  they've they've kind of been around um Brian do you want to add 
  anything before we launch into it.
Brian: Know I think that sums it up pretty good.
Manu Sporny:  Awesome all right all right so we're going to cover 
  a couple things today we're going to talk about kind of 
  blockchains and what you know well why they're difficult 
  sometimes um how cryptographic event logs might be a simpler way 
  to tackle some of the problems that blockchains are typically 
  used for we're going to talk about how uh cryptographic logs work 
  uh other projects that are you know uh sell like uh we're going 
  to talk about did web VH um and did skid and kind of you know how 
  they use uh logs um and then we are talk we're going to talk 
  about how you know maybe we can use this stuff and apply to uh 
  things that this community has worked on for a while like 
  decentralized identifiers um and um potentially how this work 
  could impact social networks um love to see that uh Brian Newbold 
  uh from Blue Sky is here today so would love to hear your 
  thoughts um on this stuff as we go.
<bryan_newbold_(bluesky)> /me waves
Manu Sporny:  Feel free to interrupt as we go uh this is a very 
  kind of loose presentation um.
Manu Sporny:  Okay so let's get into it um now why are 
  blockchains difficult to use so you know blockchains have now 
  been around for you know well over a decade um uh some would 
  argue even longer um they exist in the world today and they are 
  useful things right um uh they have uh they they solve certain 
  problems that we were not able to solve um uh before um so 
  they're they're fundamentally like a really neat cool new 
  technology relatively speaking um uh but there are some things 
  that are difficult about uh blockchains um you know we were in 
  the early days of blockchains we were thinking like oh they're 
  going to totally take over the way we run organizations and make 
  decisions and uh you know do ownership and you know 15 years 
  later that hasn't necessarily uh happened but they are still in 
  existence with massive um kind of.
Manu Sporny:   Kind of monetary value.
Manu Sporny:  Associated with them okay so.
Manu Sporny:  What makes blockchains difficult to use though like 
  why have they not expanded to to replace databases um well 1 of 
  the 1 of the issues um with certain blockchains is that uh they 
  burn a lot of energy now relatively speaking you there there's a 
  good argument that they don't um uh but um in some cases you know 
  you look at uh these massive Farms of mining machines that eat an 
  enormous amount of energy um and that is viewed as you know um uh 
  a concern uh to some people um on the other side of it you know 
  the blockchains that don't burn a lot of energy they and you end 
  up having to stake something of value which is money and then 
  there's an argument there that like oh well you know those things 
  are just centralizing on uh who has money and and who doesn't and 
  you know that sort of thing there are all kinds of hybrid 
  mechanisms.
Manu Sporny:   In between you know.
Manu Sporny:  Electra based mechanisms you know things that have 
  um.
Manu Sporny:  Levels of governance but fundamentally in order to 
  get that governance right it takes a lot of effort like a lot of 
  people have to get together and they have to agree so blockchains 
  you know haven't been applied to every single problem because 
  they are kind of heavyweight things to get up and and running um 
  at scale so you burn a lot of energy you stake a lot of money or 
  you just end up spending a lot of time in governance and the 
  governance thing Falls over at certain scaling points so that's 
  that's fundamentally why they're difficult difficult but they all 
  pretty much do the same thing they they order a set of events 
  right things happen they keep the State of the State of their 
  world that they're tracking uh internally consistent um and 
  fundamentally they are hard to use because it takes a lot of work 
  either represented as energy burned or money spent or you know 
  whom now or is taken.
Manu Sporny:  Work to agree on an overall state of the the 
  system.
Manu Sporny:  Um but and this is kind of the pitch behind 
  cryptographic event logs is what if we don't have to agree on the 
  system like every single Financial account uh in the system or 
  every single um uh asset or token in the system um uh 1 of the 
  ways to think about this is the the way the web happen so you 
  know pre-web we had these hypertext systems in there was just 
  this fundamental notion in these hypertext systems that you could 
  never break a link like you know that the links were 
  bidirectional you could go forward and backward and everything 
  was internally consistent and they all you know pointed and and 
  you know there was this complete graph that you could navigate 
  forward and backward um but the web did 1 fundamental different 
  thing um it proposed that you know what it's okay for us to break 
  these links and and while that sounds like a normal part of the 
  web today back then.
Manu Sporny:   It was.
Manu Sporny:  Viewed as this just.
Manu Sporny:  Heretical concept right why would you have a 
  computer which can keep things you know perfectly consistent in 
  introduced this concept of a broken link who would even want that 
  right um so the web succeeded because it it it changed this 
  fundamental belief that you needed consistency um uh in the 
  system.
Manu Sporny:  So you know what if we kind of.
Manu Sporny:  Try to solve this problem in the way the web solves 
  this problem in that the web really only cares about like 1 
  Resource uh at a time uh at the most fundamental level and it 
  allows broken links and so what if we allow broken links in a 
  blockchain what if we allow a blockchain to have multiple 
  different um uh ways that it can be interpreted um.
Manu Sporny:  And I know that you know.
Manu Sporny:  This has been talked about in the literature people 
  have kind of tried to build this uh stuff but uh again with 
  cryptographic event logs we're trying to take this idea um uh you 
  know to to to its its natural natural end Okay so.
Manu Sporny:  Fundamentally what is a cryptographic event log um 
  if we think about like a document that you're editing so you know 
  you've got like a Google Document open or a Microsoft Excel thing 
  open or whatever you make changes to that document over time you 
  might write a sentence in the document and then go away for a 
  couple days and come back and write another paragraph go away for 
  a couple of days you come back and you revise what you wrote and 
  each time there's kind of a change to that document and there's a 
  history there in fact with like Google Docs you can go to the 
  history and you can see all the changes that you've made over 
  time and that is effectively an event log of how you've modified 
  this document over time now a cryptographic event log adds 
  something to that process it adds this concept of a witness uh 
  and a witness all the witness has to do is say I saw your 
  document at this point in time um and in fact the witness doesn't 
  even have to see the document they just.
Manu Sporny:  A cryptographic hash of the document and so each 
  witness basically goes uh yes I saw your document and using the 
  timeline on the screen here yes I saw your document on January 
  5th yes I saw your document on January 10th and these were the 
  contents of it yes I saw your document on January 18th and this 
  was you know the cryptographic hash and so on and so forth so 
  that um anyone that's modifying this document can prove.
Manu Sporny:  To anyone else that the document changed in a very 
  specific way over a over a a a a series of you know time and and 
  events in these witnesses as long as whoever's verifying these 
  set of changes trusts at least 1 witness and this is where it 
  kind of gets exciting um uh.
Manu Sporny:  Then you've proven the entire change log for the 
  document and you haven't had to create a blockchain network you 
  haven't had to get a bunch of people together to agree on who the 
  electors uh or the the Witnesses are uh and and so on and so 
  forth um so think about this as an adversarial process um and 
  pretend that these Witnesses are nation states that do not like 
  each other.
Manu Sporny:  Um the I think that the real power of this system 
  is that you can have a set of witnesses um.
Manu Sporny:  On a set of changes.
Manu Sporny:  Where they are.
Manu Sporny:  Of each other in the worst case or you know 
  moderately you know they moderately dislike each other right in 
  other cases um and as long as the person verifying it just trusts 
  1 of them it doesn't have to trust both of them but if it trusts 
  1 of them then it can be sure that a certain series of events 
  happen and and even if it it trusts both of them if they're both 
  saying the same thing and you know they're kind of like mortal 
  enemies uh you've got a pretty.
Manu Sporny:  Belief that you know these sets of events happened 
  okay so that's that's fundamentally what a cryptographic event 
  log uh is at its at its core let me stop there and see if there 
  are any questions on the concept.
Manu Sporny:  Or if Brian you want to add anything kind of to 
  that.
Harrison_Tang: Up the question um what's the incentive for the 
  witnesses to uh basically verify or be the witness essentially.
Manu Sporny:  That is an excellent question I don't know um is 
  the is the is the honest answer that there there so this this 
  concept um presumes that there is an incentive right so so for 
  example um uh let me uh I don't know if Kim's here but let me let 
  me pull like diff into this the decentralized identity 
  Foundation.
Manu Sporny:  If the diff cares about decentralized identifiers 
  and decentralized identifiers documents um which they do um uh in 
  in for example the w3c cares about that stuff they may set up 
  witnessing Services um for decentralized identifiers documents um 
  and and they and they do that because they want to see dids uh 
  dids work um there are 2 ways to do that 1 of them they could do 
  it so that um they do blind witnessing the other 1 is so that 
  they know they can see the documents that that that are that are 
  being changed the latter 1 being dangerous which we don't want to 
  do right so so so so the incentive here is that organizations 
  believe that having these witnessing mechanisms out there are 
  important um uh in from a liability standpoint uh if that all 
  they're doing is signing cryptographic hashes some organizations 
  will view that as an acceptable.
Manu Sporny:   Level of risk.
Manu Sporny:  Meaning like they.
Manu Sporny:  They don't know what the they don't know what hash 
  they're signing is they just saw it at certain point in time and 
  they're asserting that they they saw it at a certain point in 
  time so um the the the I think the neat thing about these 
  Witnesses is they don't all have to have the same incentives in 
  fact they can have wildly different incentives but if the end 
  result of that is they witness the event at a certain point in 
  time then um then that's that's that's great and I see the the uh 
  Q growing so I'm going to be quiet.
Robert Long:  Yeah matter hi thank you um so you are I think 
  partially answered what I was asking which is the Witnesses are 
  simply acknowledging that they've looked at the document at the 
  particular time and date that they did and they're not making any 
  judgment or comment or anything about what they've seen other 
  than that they did is that correct.
Manu Sporny:  That is correct and in in I want to focus on 
  they've looked at the document they don't even have to do that 
  they just have to witness that a cryptographic hash existed at a 
  certain point in time in fact that's.
Robert Long:  Okay so if the document is is is is in fact 
  encrypted in some way that's fine they're just acknowledging they 
  see it that that it is present if the document is something they 
  can be done of course that can look at it.
Robert Long:  Okay all right thank you.
Wolf_McNally: Hi thanks man um uh I'm curious why you felt that 
  the Witnesses were uh actually a necessary feature of crypto 
  cryptographic event logs without them what um what essential 
  aspects of the system.
Wolf_McNally: Are missing that you felt adding them was uh 
  important for.
<phillip_long> Witnesses add third-party confirmation of the log 
  and it's entries
Manu Sporny:  Yes that's an excellent point wolf it's so you can 
  have um I think this is what you're you're getting at you can 
  have a cryptographic event log without Witnesses um and at that 
  point you're kind of uh uh depending on whoever created the law 
  you're you're trusting whoever created the log right um Witnesses 
  um at least the the 1 thing that we can see that Witnesses add is 
  it allows um another kind of source of truth that you might trust 
  more than the entity that created the cryptographic event log in 
  the in the first place um so it's uh you can have a cryptographic 
  event log with zero Witnesses um uh.
Manu Sporny:   But we.
Manu Sporny:  Is add a level of further trust into the system uh 
  that doesn't exist if you didn't have the witnesses did did that 
  um make sense well.
Wolf_McNally: Yeah I think it does um I wasn't clear from reading 
  the original spec whether you considered witnesses to be an 
  essential feature of the system or an optional feature of the 
  system.
Wolf_McNally: Great thank you.
Manu Sporny:  I'd I'd suggest it's optional right now but we 
  don't I I don't know if we have Clarity on that yet wolf like 
  would love to hear other people's you know opinions on it um.
Manu Sporny:  Thing if we make it mandatory then we may 
  accidentally uh remove a set of use cases that are important 
  that's that's why I'm hesitant to make it mandatory at this 
  point.
Wolf_McNally: Excellent thank you.
Bob Wyman:  Yeah I think I think my concerns are.
Bob Wyman:  Similar to wolves um I I'm very surprised by the 
  introduction of this idea of witness we as you said we've had 
  cryptographic event logs.
Bob Wyman:  Very long time.
Bob Wyman:   I mean.
Bob Wyman:  I was used them back in the in the early 90s but but 
  without the necessity of any complex complexity like uh um like 
  Witnesses I mean.
Bob Wyman:  Cryptographic event log can be simply created by by 
  having whoever writes an event uh do do the hash updates um.
Bob Wyman:  It it it concerns me that you present this idea of 
  essentially a specific form of cryptographic event log and event 
  log which which relies on Witnesses under a title which is 
  cryptographic event logs in other words the general title.
Bob Wyman:  Concern here is that.
Bob Wyman:  Presentation of this um it really would be better if 
  you if you focused more on the fact that you are dealing with a 
  specialized version of cryptographic event logs as opposed to the 
  general class the general class of of of event logs doesn't 
  require Witnesses this 1 May and it may have some particular 
  advantages and if so those advantages should be clearly called 
  out relative to the the the the the other members of the general 
  class but um it just it just bothers me this in in many contexts 
  we do this of adding on unnecessary complexity um when a 
  appearing to Define fundamental concepts and in this case I think 
  you've you've kind of done that you've added this witness thing 
  to an idea which which doesn't require it.
Manu Sporny:  That is a very fair point so perhaps what we need 
  to do is rename the specification to something like witnessed 
  cryptographic event logs or something more specific um because 
  you're right I mean it does confuse.
Bob Wyman:  That I think would be excellent because you know I.
Bob Wyman:  Had this problem with people for instance say oh you 
  can't actually have you know crypto cryptographic event logs 
  without blockchain and it's like.
Bob Wyman:  How could anybody like so Mis fundamentally 
  misunderstand the reality yet there there are people who make 
  those statements regularly because they've been taught that uh 
  that kind of algorithmic complexity is necessary to accomplish 
  the basic function and we we we are not well served by having 
  people believe such things anyway yes if you called it witness 
  cryptographic event logs I think that would be wonderful to 
  distinguish it from the general class.
Manu Sporny:  Excellent so so let's let's uh let's let's make 
  that change you know modulo what what the rest of the the 
  community uh thinks um and yeah plus 1 let me you know like I 
  said we haven't figured all this stuff out we're kind of 
  presenting in its rough form to get feedback from the community 
  um go go ahead Brian please.
Brian: Yeah I just wanted to point out um like you said um like 
  the witnessing feature of this is is I'd say an advanced version 
  um like there is the basic version without Witnesses like like 
  you pointed out um so I maybe witness the both event logs but uh 
  I I don't think we should throw away the concept to this is 
  possible without Witnesses in this uh data model.
Manu Sporny:  Yeah and we'll get into that when uh we get into 
  kind of did web VH and and that sort of thing okay all right uh 
  I'm going to keep going uh that's the the basic concept here um 
  just so you know folks that like looking at code this is kind of 
  what it looks like like this is the structure of a cryptographic 
  event log um uh that has been witnessed you've got events and 
  then you've got a set of proofs that are from the witnesses and 
  the log consists of an event with proofs and event with proofs 
  and event with proofs um there are other ways to structure it as 
  as we'll get to when you know Brian talks about did Webb VH um 
  but the fundamental concept hopefully is like pretty pretty 
  simple uh and high level um if we want to look into what 1 of 
  these events look like uh sorry what what 1 of these events uh 
  look like um we've got a log we've got an event in operation 
  which is a create operation on some.
Manu Sporny:  Right so the data is just an object that says the 
  name of this object is hello world and then it's got a digital 
  signature on it no not from a witness it's just a digital 
  signature from The Entity that created the data so this is a this 
  is an unwitnessed um entry uh in the cryptographic event log um 
  and it's really no more complicated than that right it's just a 
  series of events with proofs uh optional you know witness proofs 
  on it and then each entry is like a Creator update operation 
  which you should look very familiar to many people in the group 
  that you know work on blockchains and and things like that um 
  there are a number of these other examples uh in the 
  specification today.
Manu Sporny:  Okay so fundamentally uh cryptographic event logs 
  are witnessed uh witness cryptographic event logs are like 
  blockchains in that they order a set of events they order a set 
  of events that modify kind of like this data object um but unlike 
  blockchains they uh largely focus on a single resource though 
  that's not always you know uh true but I think for the purposes 
  of this discussion they just deal with a single resource uh the 
  change is we're suggesting are like blindly witnessed um in their 
  all kinds of privacy reasons to do that in liability reasons uh 
  to do that from a witness perspective and the truth what the 
  object what the series of events actually means is in the eye of 
  the verifier.
Manu Sporny:  Um which is again slightly different from you know 
  the way uh some blockchains you know are are implemented um so 
  truth is a perspective that a verifier can have rather than there 
  being kind of a single uh uh uh source of Truth um uh Harrison 
  you did sorry I saw you put yourself on the Queue do you have any 
  questions on this.
Harrison_Tang: Oh yeah just a clarification question so basically 
  uh uh the proofs are chained together essentially right so make 
  sure that okay cool.
Manu Sporny:  Yes absolutely yeah yeah that's that's the yeah I 
  forgot to mention that earlier but yes the the proofs are changed 
  chained together so that there is a very specific ordering of of 
  events and when things happened.
Manu Sporny:  Uh let's see.
Manu Sporny:  Uh I don't know why I had this slide in there 
  anyway uh moving on there are other cryptographic event log like 
  projects blockchains right we've talked about blockchains as Bob 
  mentioned like cryptographic event logs existed even before 
  blockchains there's a certificate transparency stuff which you 
  could view as kind of a cryptographic event log um and then you 
  know to hand it over to to uh Brian uh there is also work in 
  multiple did methods that kind of focus on uh cryptographic uh 
  event logs um so Brian over to you to to take us through kind of 
  did web VH and and you know what it what it does and how it does 
  it.
Brian: Yeah thanks man um yeah so uh the did method that we've 
  been working on did web VH uh VH stands for verifiable history um 
  so that's kind of a lead into the crypto event log part of it.
Brian: So basically it works similar to did web um you publish 
  all of your logs every update um instead of just the final output 
  did document what you do did web um so these logs in uh in web VH 
  they're not right now they're not a a cell they're not the exact 
  format we've been looking at today but they're the same sort of 
  concept so each.
Brian: New entry sort of references the previous entry and that's 
  where you get your your chaining of your logs.
Brian: Um it uses the same did web HTTP transform to find the 
  file uh all we did was we tacked on a an L onto the uh did Json 
  to make it did did Json l.
Brian: And that's that's just on lines which is um it's just a a 
  file that is lines of of Json they're all separated by a new new 
  line character there's nothing too crazy there they just um we 
  just found that format to work for us.
Brian: Um so that's what this gives you is your full verifiable 
  history basically um and it's you can pull that down and and the 
  resolvable uh.
Brian: Verify the whole start to finish history when they when 
  they need to see the current state of the document.
Brian: Uh another feature that we kind of have in there is this 
  this concept of a skid which may reference sort of briefly um 
  which is what that is is essentially like a globally unique sort 
  of hash that is the.
Brian: Sort of like access the first hash in the chain um you're 
  able to um add your first entry which has a reference to that and 
  and you can sort of look at the input and and know that that got 
  to that first uh date sort of thing.
Brian: Um each of these log entries in our in our jsonl file is 
  has this uh signatures data Integrity signatures um and these are 
  solely the controller that creates those signatures there's no 
  witnessing involved in that process there.
Brian: So you can use this um this.
Brian: Verification on that log entry and um if it passes then 
  you you know that that the controller got to that point uh in a 
  valid way.
Brian: I know the concept we have in there is the is pre rotation 
  of keys.
Brian:  so that.
Brian: Means is you're able to visually public publish the hash 
  of the key that you say is going to be the next 1.
Brian: And then when you make an update your your new key has to 
  match that hash that you've already published so that allows you 
  to um if you your key gets compromised your active key gets 
  compromised you don't have to worry about um them the malicious 
  attacker rotating away and creating a new um new history that you 
  don't have control over certain thing.
Brian: So we also do have the concept of a witness um how this 
  works into the Webb is is actually in a different separate Json 
  file.
Brian: And the resolver has to pull that file down and verify 
  that uh.
Brian: Uh witness did did make valid signatures and they passed 
  the threshold and out of of um signatures that we require.
Brian: That the controller has set up as a requirement.
Brian: And lastly we also have this concept of uh who is what 
  which is is something we came up with that feels it pretty 
  powerful what it is is basically um having a place a known place 
  that uh has a bundle of verifiable credentials about the the did 
  to sort of uh help a verifier when they're when they're judging 
  if they trust that did.
Brian: Um yes so next slide.
Brian: Uh our next steps so essentially we've been working on 
  this for um a better part of last year and this year and we're 
  hoping that we can get to a version 1.0 soon um like very soon um 
  we think we're basically there with all the features and 
  everything sort of um hasn't been changing too much recently so 
  we're hoping that we can call it you know uh essentially done 
  ready to work um and 1 thing we are very interested though is 
  this alignment with this uh.
Brian: Specification that we're talking about today um it would 
  be it's you know it's.
Brian: Formed data model and it would be great to have alignment 
  here in that way um like I said there our current logs are not 
  quite this exact format but they're quite similar so it wouldn't 
  take too much change.
Brian: We think that maybe that would open up like a potential 
  path for using cell and and um.
Brian: Web and and skid did skid altogether to sort of make a new 
  um version of did web that is just cryptographically verifiable 
  history of of the logs and stuff.
Brian: Uh so if you go to the next yeah so here um I broke up all 
  of the different features that I've gone over into sort of those 
  buckets that I just listed so the first ones there you see 
  they're sort of just.
Brian: You do these sort of stuff on the on the web um we added 
  you know our who is on there how do you find that and how to 
  transform the um the did into a uh.
Brian: A location to download the file and that sort of stuff and 
  then there's the features that are pretty much the same as what 
  cell kind of provides so um being able to witness things and 
  being able to uh sign the the the update and uh having that full 
  verifiable history.
Brian: Then um the last thing we've sort of uh bucketed there is 
  this this concept of a skid um so basically being able to.
Brian: Know being able to address the the the did in this case 
  right I'm having this this globally unique um identifier that you 
  are able to use to verify the of the input certainly.
Brian: Um yeah so that's kind of our our thinking around how 
  these sorts of things could align um and yeah.
Brian:  next slide I think.
Brian: I think that's.
Brian: Kind of all I had for uh did web VH.
Manu Sporny:  Awesome thanks Brian.
Manu Sporny:  Um any any questions on kind of did web VH and 
  direction it's going and that sort of thing.
Manu Sporny:  I will mention that you know there's this um did 
  method standardization or incubation work that's happening at the 
  decentralized identity foundation and uh you know did web VH is 
  like 1 of The Front Runners I think for.
Manu Sporny:  Things that we would like to see in a did Webb like 
  you know method um it's got a lot of really cool features uh that 
  I think would be generally useful um uh as upgrades uh optional 
  upgrades to did web.
Harrison_Tang: Uh sorry uh yeah a clarification question um so I 
  know there's like a lot of deep methods out there and then some 
  deep methods will check some of the boxes like for example the 
  the self-certifying identifier there are some methods that does 
  it so is it true that did what VH is trying to basically be the 
  standard or like 1 of the more popular did methods that check all 
  these boxes is that is that true or no.
Brian: Um yeah I mean it we're trying to to check as many many of 
  the boxes as possible um I think you know the the fact that you 
  have to rely on the web server uh there's a certain sort of 
  control uh placed in that web server uh so it's not I would say 
  it's not fully self Sovereign in in a way like um a you know a 
  third-party entity that is relying on some web server that they 
  don't control of course has to have some level of control in 
  there there's also uh you know DNS factors into that there's 
  maybe not ideal that you have to kind of resolve domain names um 
  but yeah I'd say we're trying to trying to take as many boxes as 
  possible.
Harrison_Tang: And also another clarification question for the 
  who is feature is the verifiable presentation uh containing the 
  verifiable credentials about basically the controller is that is 
  that correct or.
Brian: Yeah that's right yeah yeah that that concept is sort of 
  like um here's a list of or here's a bunch of VCS about me um 
  here's my you know license to.
Brian: On the internet on uh this sort of certain product here 
  and then the resolver the verifier is able to pull that down and 
  be like oh yeah they've got this um this CNC from this third 
  party that we trust kind of thing.
Manu Sporny:  Yeah like like for a business like you know here's 
  here's my you know business um uh did uh here is my uh uh um you 
  know verification that I am a a registered business in this 
  province or this state or this nation uh you know here is uh here 
  are the products that uh you know I sell these are certified by 
  you know these um you know uh consumer authorities things like 
  that like you know the ability for uh a business to express 
  things that it is licensed and uh validly operating uh for 
  example um.
Manu Sporny:   I think.
Manu Sporny:  We're we're I don't think we're suggesting like you 
  know someone would take their driver's license and like post it 
  on their website um in in who is I think this is largely for 
  things that you want to be public um uh like you're verified you 
  know um uh uh social media accounts or that you're verified 
  business or you know your store hours or things of that nature.
Manu Sporny:  Um moving in real quick uh to the to the end here 
  um so there is a way that we can put these Technologies together 
  as Brian was mentioning um uh in a way that might get us to kind 
  of the the the Holy Grail you know what whatever you want to you 
  know call it Promised Land of dids which is a truly decentralized 
  um uh did method that uh is not uh part that is not dependent on 
  a blockchain right um so uh if we construct the witness uh 
  mechanism in a way where uh you only need a handful of Witnesses 
  on your did document as it changed through changes through time 
  um if we can construct it in a way where it doesn't really matter 
  which domain you put the the history log on um there is a way 
  that we could create a really lightweight fully decentralized.
Manu Sporny:  Did method built on these Concepts so like did web 
  VH is like very very close to that right there is still that 
  domain binding that Brian was talking about and you know there 
  there's a design decision there um because you know there was a 
  there was a desire to have compatibility with did web which a lot 
  of.
Manu Sporny:  Large organizations like to see um.
Manu Sporny:  But it doesn't take a lot of work to kind of look 
  at did web VH in a certain light or did skid in a certain light 
  and go like you know what we can totally break that tie with the 
  domain and make it fully portable in fact they're you know 
  there's a mechanism in the web VH that does allow uh you to Port 
  documents from 1 1 domain to the other so.
Manu Sporny:  That fundamentally it's kind of built on this 
  concept of cryptographic event logs and Witnesses if you have 
  those things then all of a sudden you don't necessarily need a 
  blockchain for a fully decentralized in method and this is 
  particularly exciting because we're getting ready to try and do 
  some of the first Global standards for did methods um and if we 
  get this right it means that we will have kind of solved the 
  thing that we had initially uh set out to solve with 
  decentralized identifiers now it doesn't mean that it's the only 
  you know decentralized identifiers you know mechanism there can 
  be many many different ones um because of the design of Deads but 
  it means that maybe we finally hit something that everyone can 
  agree to um to use that is way more decentralized than than what 
  we have uh today.
<steve_m> r.e. portability - how do you ensure time stamp 
  alignment across domains?
Manu Sporny:  So the technology is applicable directly applicable 
  to Deads you know it's directly applicable to any document that 
  changes over over time any any binary data that changes over time 
  uh but specifically it's uh useful um uh for DS.
Manu Sporny:  The other thing that it could be useful for.
<kayode_ezike> Remind me: do you intend to incorporate the whois 
  service into the core DID spec or does did:webvh just use the 
  existing DID service format to provide the whois service?
Manu Sporny:  And this is where we need you know uh help help 
  kind of understanding the the design space uh from Brian Newbold 
  and the other folks at Blue Sky and the folks that worked on 
  activity Pub and all that kind of stuff um I have been talking 
  with uh Christine uh who was the you know the primary architect 
  behind activity Pub about this uh and she's really excited about 
  it because you know this would allow us to create a more 
  decentralized kind of way of doing posts and responses and 
  modifications and things like that so if you think if you think 
  of like inactivity Pub post um uh with a cryptographic event log 
  and Witnesses um you could 1 W witness the post over time so I 
  definitely said this thing at this point in time and I definitely 
  modified it at this point in time there's a there's a you know a 
  transparency authenticity part of people posting things right 
  people wouldn't be able to just delete things um sometimes that.
Manu Sporny:   That's a good thing and you want.
Manu Sporny:  It's a bad thing and you don't want that feature um 
  uh but you know we could do this with posts and profiles and all 
  kinds of other things in in in Social uh media and we could get 
  full portability of these data objects um uh you know that that 
  is also a a full cryptographically provable portability um of our 
  our kind of social media uh posts and and things like that um uh 
  so it ends up operating.
Manu Sporny:  Being a more decentralized uh uh manner.
Manu Sporny:   I think that's large.
Manu Sporny:  It you know what are the next steps here like you 
  know.
<markus_sabadello> DIF DID Methods WG: 
  https://github.com/decentralized-identity/did-methods/
Manu Sporny:  If you are interested in any of this stuff like 
  working with the did web VH group you know would be uh would be 1 
  place that you could contribute or learn more there's also the 
  deaf did methods working group right now where we're incubating 
  some of these you know specifications uh there will be a w3c did 
  methods working group uh probably at some point this year um I 
  should we are there enough people that are interested in this 
  just to talk about the the cell based you know did method um uh 
  in you know where else can we collaborate on this stuff you know 
  what what else can we use this technology to do that people are 
  interested in um okay I think that's that's largely it um Brian 
  would you want to share like what's the best way for people to 
  kind of participate in the did web VH work.
Brian: Yeah sure um yes we have a first of all we have a slack 
  group in the uh diff slack um so I was chatting in there and then 
  we have meetings every Thursday at um I think it's 8 a.m. or 9 am 
  Pacific and so every other Thursday sorry so that is this 
  Thursday we have 1.
Brian: It's in the diff calendar.
Brian: And then just check if it's not Amber 8 a.m. yeah it's 9 
  am.
Brian: Yeah so please join us there.
Manu Sporny:  It's 9 a.m. uh Pacific did you say Brian.
Manu Sporny:  All right I think we have.
Harrison_Tang: Cool I think we have a couple questions in the 
  queue so first of all uh Steve had a question in regards to 
  portability how do you ensure time stamp alignments across 
  domains.
Manu Sporny:  That's an excellent question that's 1 of those 
  that's 1 of those things where it's kind of like uh it depends on 
  the verifier and what the verifier you know as long as aligned 
  with you know we have mechanisms that that I think 1 of the ideal 
  things is that to use a timestamping service you have to make 
  sure that it's clock is aligned with other timestamping services 
  and that's something that we would probably have to put into the 
  protocol to make sure that um you know it is using an atomic 
  clock um appropriately um I will assert that that's largely a s 
  solved problem on the on the internet like since the the 90s um 
  but it is possible to have clock skew and clock drift and it's 
  possible to have that in a way that matters in a particular set 
  of you know cryptographic event logs um like for example if 
  you're doing high frequency trading you probably wouldn't be able 
  to use witnesses that did not also have like very strongly synced 
  um uh uh uh atomic clocks right.
Harrison_Tang: Cool I have 4 more questions so I'll quickly go 
  through them so coyote has a question in regards to do you you 
  tend to incorporate the who is service into the court did spec or 
  does did web VH just use the existing disservice format to 
  provide the who is service.
Brian: Um yeah that's a good question um I think we think it's we 
  think it's a very useful feature and so we kind of uh are urging 
  more did methods to sort of adopt it um I think there's there is 
  some talk about spinning it out as it's as its own sort of 
  extension.
<bobwyman> Lamport's paper on clocks was published in 1978...
Brian: Application um and then just pointing to that um but yeah 
  we.
Brian: How are you how it works is um we have an implicit um 
  files resolver sort of thing um or linked to VP um which is 
  another diff specification um so we have an implicit linked VP 
  service that if the um controller doesn't override that it will 
  just um uh fall back to the same sort of path as the uh did jsonl 
  file uh so if you.
Brian:  if you don't.
Brian: Sort of update that to be some other path you will find 
  your your who is in that path.
<kayode_ezike> Thanks  :+1:
Harrison_Tang: Cool thank you Brian a brand new board you're on 
  the queue.
Bryan_Newbold_(Bluesky): Hey um well I'm gonna reply there's 
  there's some like kind of I don't so I don't have a question but 
  I want to just have a couple comments uh so we have uh we at Blue 
  Sky and in at protocol have a did method called did PLC which in 
  this kind of ontology aligns closest to scid there's skid so it's 
  just they're just they're not bound to a domain um they're 
  they're chained logs like per account or per did so there's not a 
  global you know there's not a global uh blockchain or anything 
  like that at least for now um that each in in our system each 
  event signs is signed by the previous event so there they are 
  they're not blindly like they're they're expected to be verified.
Bryan_Newbold_(Bluesky):  we consider.
Bryan_Newbold_(Bluesky): Like the design of it is that they're 
  completely free floating they're not bound to any particular 
  domain or any particular thing that's kind of a hack to just get 
  the system off the ground we have a central directory that people 
  send um their operations or their events to but the idea is that 
  those are you know 1 way to think of those so that they're just 
  witnesses that cache the results in other people can query those 
  witnesses to get uh a set of the logs back so instead of hosting 
  the event log on like a web server that's you know bound to a 
  domain any you know you could have these large directories or 
  directory services that that cache them um that you know there's 
  some work to be done there about how to decentralize that a 
  little bit more and we're super out um interested in talking 
  about that but the the kind of core of it is kind of just the 
  scid mechanism um some of the things that have come up from that 
  you know there's like rate limiting that would also be an issue 
  with witnessing I would assume like how do you come up with a 
  policy around you know.
Bryan_Newbold_(Bluesky):  we think.
Bryan_Newbold_(Bluesky): Well you know these directories are 
  witnesses to scale just fine to like billions of um or even like 
  tens of billions of events and things like that but there's like 
  well what about trillions what about Millions per second um does 
  that become a problem uh we've had some there's been some design 
  questions around harmful events uh so on like a blockchain we 
  want to be able to go out and pull out events about how do you do 
  that in a transparent manner so as an example you know if someone 
  stuffs harmful content in a base 64 encoded string that gets 
  stuffed and it did document you need to be able to pull that out 
  um at some point um.
Bryan_Newbold_(Bluesky): Uh and account recovery with multiple 
  Keys that's also we have that feature I can't remember if that 
  was put yeah the pre- rotation key so it does really kind of 
  aligned with skid um anyways that's a bit of a ramble not much of 
  a question sorry.
Harrison_Tang: Thank you thank you Brian.
<wolf_mcnally> Provenance Marks White Paper:
<harrison_tang> the DID PLC that Bryan shared earlier 
  https://github.com/did-method-plc/did-method-plc
Wolf_McNally: Hi uh thanks so most of you probably don't know me 
  Manu does um I'm the leader lead researcher for a nonprofit 
  called blockchain Commons and I've been working on a project for 
  um a couple years now actually that uh blockchain commonly took 
  over called Providence marks and I just wanted to um uh I'm not 
  giving a presentation obviously here I wanted to drop a few links 
  into the chat um which I just did um to the white paper on 
  Providence marks and because they are definitely relevant to the 
  interests of the president group and I'd love to receive some um 
  early feedback on them um in addition to the white paper I also 
  have a link there to hack empty document that actually Compares 
  uh Providence marks in their current form with what I understand 
  to be cryptic about graphic event logs um as well as a link to my 
  personal uh Province Mark chain I have a reference 
  implementations in both um.
Wolf_McNally: Rust and Swift available now including a rust 
  command line tool that generates the next Providence Mark in a 
  chain and um um 1 of the main things that I think is unique about 
  Providence Marx is each Mark which is actually a relatively small 
  binary structure includes a pre-commitment to the next Mark in 
  the chain and this allows each Mark to be published um without uh 
  an actual cryptographic signature um as well as I think in many 
  cases obvious the need for for Witnesses um but I you know 
  haven't like proved that in any deep sense yet um but I would 
  love to receive some early feedback from this group on um what 
  ideas they think in Providence Marx might be um interesting 
  useful not useful um and uh I'm just very open to any kind of 
  feedback so um that's all I have to say.
Harrison_Tang: Thank you well.
Harrison_Tang: Thank you Dan and by the way you're building the 
  talent talent digital wallet right is that right.
Harrison_Tang: Cool great so yeah we'll have you uh hopefully you 
  can jump on and to present your work uh uh a month or 2 months 
  later.
Manu Sporny:  Yeah real quick before we wrap up um I wanted to 
  see I I think it'd be awesome to have Wolf come and present um 
  his uh work on the province Mark stuff I think that might be the 
  best way for you to get feedback wolf on it and I really very 
  what you said was really intriguing to me so would love to you 
  know spend an hour uh on that um the the other item I guess is 
  for um uh Brian I mean 1 of the things Brian that you know I 
  think we're struggling with and did the diff did methods working 
  group is like PLC is the largest deployed did method out there 
  and we want to make sure that whatever we create is uh highly 
  aligned um or use it reuses it or or something right and so what 
  would be the best way to collaborate with you in that discussion.
Manu Sporny:  Knowing that your time is precious in in in right.
Bryan_Newbold_(Bluesky): Yeah if you if you email me directly I'm 
  happy to check calls um around that.
Harrison_Tang: Great so wolf I'll send you an email and then 
  coordinate a time you don't mind to talk about the Providence 
  marks.
Wolf_McNally: That would be excellent thank you so much.
Harrison_Tang: Great all right I think we're at time um right at 
  time so thank you thank you Manu and thank you Brian for jumping 
  on and need a great discussion about this concludes this week's 
  ccg call thanks.
