[2025-02-25T16:59:41.220Z]	<TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com)>	present+
[2025-02-25T16:59:41.221Z]	<Harrison_Tang>	present+
[2025-02-25T16:59:54.683Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	present+
[2025-02-25T17:00:00.005Z]	<TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com)>	present+
[2025-02-25T17:00:06.988Z]	<Rob_Padula>	present+
[2025-02-25T17:00:59.397Z]	<Joe_Andrieu>	present+
[2025-02-25T17:01:14.920Z]	<econnell>	present+
[2025-02-25T17:01:20.953Z]	<Markus_Sabadello>	present+
[2025-02-25T17:01:28.295Z]	<Nate_Otto>	present+
[2025-02-25T17:01:41.738Z]	<Alex_Higuera_(DCC)>	present+
[2025-02-25T17:01:46.216Z]	<Rashmi_Siravara>	present+
[2025-02-25T17:02:16.344Z]	<Brian>	present+
[2025-02-25T17:02:24.190Z]	<Will_Abramson>	present+
[2025-02-25T17:02:26.016Z]	<Transcriber>	scribe+
[2025-02-25T17:02:26.018Z]	<Transcriber>	Meeting: weekly
[2025-02-25T17:02:26.535Z]	<Justin_Howard>	present+
[2025-02-25T17:02:27.600Z]	<bobwyman>	present+
[2025-02-25T17:02:30.882Z]	<Tim_Bloomfield>	present+
[2025-02-25T17:02:37.458Z]	<Bryan_Newbold_(Bluesky)>	present+
[2025-02-25T17:02:49.823Z]	<Transcriber>	Harrison_Tang: Well welcome welcome everyone for uh to this week's w3c ccg meeting uh today we're very excited to have mu here back again and also Brian uh to uh talk about cryptographic event logs.
[2025-02-25T17:03:02.040Z]	<Vanessa>	present+
[2025-02-25T17:03:03.873Z]	<Dmitri_Zagidulin>	present+
[2025-02-25T17:03:04.374Z]	<Transcriber>	Harrison_Tang: And uh but before that I just want to quickly go over some administrative stuff um first of all just a quick reminder for the code of ethics and professional conduct uh just want to make sure we have constructive and respectful conversations.
[2025-02-25T17:03:17.880Z]	<Transcriber>	Harrison_Tang: Next uh a quick note about the intellectual property uh anyone can participate in these calls have all substantive contribution to any ccg core guidance must be member of the ccg with full IPR agreement sign.
[2025-02-25T17:03:28.298Z]	<Transcriber>	Harrison_Tang: So if you have any questions about the w3c account or the community contributor license agreement uh please feel free to reach out to any of the cultures.
[2025-02-25T17:03:32.786Z]	<Transcriber>	Harrison_Tang: All right a quick note about the calls.
[2025-02-25T17:03:35.472Z]	<Rob_Padula>	present+
[2025-02-25T17:03:37.451Z]	<Jeff_O_-_HumanOS>	present+
[2025-02-25T17:03:37.520Z]	<Chandi_Cumaranatunge>	present+
[2025-02-25T17:03:44.896Z]	<Transcriber>	Harrison_Tang: We uh all the calls are being automatically transcribed and we will publish the uh meeting minutes and the audio and video recordings uh in the next day or 2.
[2025-02-25T17:03:55.523Z]	<Transcriber>	Harrison_Tang: Well you said Gigi Gigi chat I do the speakers doing the call so you can type in Q Plus to add yourself to the queue or cue minus to be moved.
[2025-02-25T17:04:08.290Z]	<Geun-Hyung_Kim>	present+
[2025-02-25T17:04:09.541Z]	<Transcriber>	Harrison_Tang: All right I just want to take a quick moment for the introductions and we introductions so if you're new to the community where you haven't been active and want to say hello uh feel free to just unmute.
[2025-02-25T17:04:21.649Z]	<Transcriber>	Harrison_Tang: Right I think some people are feeling shy but it's okay.
[2025-02-25T17:04:34.316Z]	<Transcriber>	Harrison_Tang: Um next uh announcements and reminders uh so if you have any announcements uh about the identity related or Open Standards work uh feel free to just uh.
[2025-02-25T17:04:34.773Z]	<Transcriber>	Harrison_Tang:  mute the word.
[2025-02-25T17:04:54.848Z]	<Wolf_McNally>	present+
[2025-02-25T17:04:57.779Z]	<Rob_Padula>	present+
[2025-02-25T17:05:36.625Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Yeah just 1 item um we uh announced the data Integrity kind of group uh loose group meeting um uh last Friday so Friday at 10:00 am Eastern um we have some um we're just kind of getting together it's a loose kind of community of people working on data Integrity related things getting together and talking about how they can move their specifications forward uh way more people than we were expecting showed up last Friday which was great um but it also kind of raised the question of like okay like what kind of work are we going to be doing in that group so right now we are definitely going to continue to work on um zkp and BBs style like data Integrity Suites we still need to get that work done and shipped to a global standard um uh last Friday uh our Italian colleagues uh showed up that are working on a post-quantum.
[2025-02-25T17:05:49.198Z]	<Kayode_Ezike>	present+
[2025-02-25T17:06:23.102Z]	<Rob_Padula>	present+
[2025-02-25T17:06:37.659Z]	<TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com)>	group calendar/page link?
[2025-02-25T17:06:38.382Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Sweet so um Andrea from dine uh in Fork bomb uh was there along with his team uh to talk about um uh things that you know they'd like to focus on um will was there to talk about um or you know will will was there and I think we're going to start talking about some of the uh the crypto Suite uh he's been working on along with um uh se26 K1 and Shor signatures um and then there was of course interest in ZK snarks and CK Starks and and that type of privacy preserving kind of um mechanism so um and then of course during this week we saw the selective redaction um uh conversation also happen so there's a lot of discussion that's happening and we have those meetings weekly every Friday at 10:00 am Eastern so if you're interested in the work uh please drop in uh we are trying to figure it out and trying to figure out the best way to structure all those.
[2025-02-25T17:06:38.982Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny:  all those work.
[2025-02-25T17:06:41.879Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: We move forward um.
[2025-02-25T17:06:46.895Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: But yeah just just that as a if you're interested uh please join.
[2025-02-25T17:06:47.953Z]	<James_Chartrand>	present+
[2025-02-25T17:06:49.880Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Um Ted you asked for.
[2025-02-25T17:07:00.899Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Group calendar link I sent it out to the ccg um I think as a as a meeting invite so it should be there and if it's not let me know and I'll try to.
[2025-02-25T17:07:01.167Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny:  push it out.
[2025-02-25T17:07:02.603Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny:  that's it.
[2025-02-25T17:07:08.427Z]	<Mic_Bowman_(intel)>	present+
[2025-02-25T17:07:17.700Z]	<Harrison_Tang>	@Ted  7:00 – 7:30am
Weekly on Friday.  https://meet.w3c-ccg.org/data-integrity
[2025-02-25T17:07:17.816Z]	<Will_Abramson>	https://dcdpr.github.io/data-integrity-schnorr-secp256k1/
[2025-02-25T17:07:18.345Z]	<Denken>	present+
[2025-02-25T17:07:25.455Z]	<Justin_Howard>	present+
[2025-02-25T17:07:31.656Z]	<Transcriber>	Will_Abramson: Sure yeah that reminds me uh I mean it's great timing just looks like like last week I think it was last week I posted to the mailing list some work we've been doing with DCd and that is just to develop this new data Integrity crypto suite for sep using schnorr signatures so basically anyone with you know keys they use in Bitcoin would be able to use these keys to.
[2025-02-25T17:07:35.039Z]	<Transcriber>	Will_Abramson: Sign verifiable credentials for example.
[2025-02-25T17:07:37.550Z]	<Transcriber>	Will_Abramson: Yeah and it's kind of.
[2025-02-25T17:07:37.756Z]	<Transcriber>	Will_Abramson:  I mean.
[2025-02-25T17:07:45.143Z]	<Transcriber>	Will_Abramson: I think it's pretty that I like to have some implementations that kind of work in uh I'd love to work with manager and get it integrated into some of.
[2025-02-25T17:07:57.082Z]	<Transcriber>	Will_Abramson: That digital bizarre libraries but also I think within the next few weeks probably we'll put a formal proposal together to move this is a proper work item under the ccg uh I just haven't got to do that yet.
[2025-02-25T17:08:02.901Z]	<Transcriber>	Harrison_Tang: Great thanks well thanks Manny.
[2025-02-25T17:08:06.410Z]	<Transcriber>	Harrison_Tang: In other uh announcements or reminders.
[2025-02-25T17:08:12.858Z]	<Ariel>	present+
[2025-02-25T17:08:15.570Z]	<TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com)>	found it — https://www.w3.org/mid/calendar-6b933a6a-78f9-4bf4-b49d-df6e53c24c57@google.com
[2025-02-25T17:08:16.722Z]	<Transcriber>	Harrison_Tang: Any updates on the work kind.
[2025-02-25T17:08:55.789Z]	<Transcriber>	Harrison_Tang: So uh next week uh we will actually have a team and Sam uh from Google to talk about digital credentials API so digital credentials API Charter actually has been approved and it will proceed uh and uh came and said will actually provide an update about digital credentials API uh and just a quick note digital credentials API is uh basically an API that allows you to access digital credentials from the wallet and there has been discussions about um.
[2025-02-25T17:09:32.786Z]	<Transcriber>	Harrison_Tang: Know um changing the fasti and Federate credentials management API that browser support to uh kind of the wallet self Sovereign identity model so so I think they will talk more about it uh so stay tuned uh next week and then the week after we will have the uh open Agenda and uh q1 2025 review as well as the work item update so um I'm just gonna paint the different work item leaders uh again uh to help us like update the presentation deck which I sent out um so that we can actually have a no.
[2025-02-25T17:09:35.112Z]	<Transcriber>	Harrison_Tang: Uh next next.
[2025-02-25T17:09:37.828Z]	<Transcriber>	Harrison_Tang: Tuesday how much is that.
[2025-02-25T17:09:49.671Z]	<Transcriber>	Harrison_Tang: Calls for introductions reintroductions announcements reminders and work item related stuff.
[2025-02-25T17:10:10.703Z]	<David_I._Lehn>	present+
[2025-02-25T17:10:25.384Z]	<Transcriber>	Harrison_Tang: Cool let's get to the main agenda so uh again very excited to have Manu and Brian here to talk about a need that the discussion on cryptographic event logs I think there has been several threads about this topic and uh as M you have described could the graphic event logs are like local blockchains that record and digital sign changes to data right but without the need for uh distributed networks or consensus algorithms or cryptography which could cry cryptocurrency which is uh.
[2025-02-25T17:10:31.298Z]	<Transcriber>	Harrison_Tang: Topic of debate right not community so without further Ado man please take it away.
[2025-02-25T17:10:36.411Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Awesome thank you Harrison um.
[2025-02-25T17:10:48.805Z]	<Harrison_Tang>	Topic: <Cryptographic Event Logs>
[2025-02-25T17:11:37.348Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: All right and uh uh uh Brian uh richer um very graciously uh uh agreed to co-present this uh with me because Brian's also very um involved uh in um some of the did web VH work and a variety of other uh cryptographic event log uh style things um I will also mention that before we go into any of this that like we're still all figuring this out um I don't think that there's like a cohesive concrete plan on how we're going to get all of this stuff to work together and that's like we're kind of presenting it now it's it's pretty rough um but the hope is to you know um share what we've learned so far with the rest of the community with the hope that some of you uh join us and help us uh make this stuff uh better uh successful all that kind of stuff so um uh while we're calling these things cryptographic event logs uh today they're called other things.
[2025-02-25T17:11:37.657Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny:  in other.
[2025-02-25T17:12:01.707Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: And as I'll kind of go into uh this isn't super new um some concepts are are kind of new and the way we're putting it together is is maybe new but um cryptographic event logs have been a thing for a very long time even pre-b blockchain uh they've they've kind of been around um Brian do you want to add anything before we launch into it.
[2025-02-25T17:12:04.797Z]	<Transcriber>	Brian: Know I think that sums it up pretty good.
[2025-02-25T17:12:54.465Z]	<Denken>	present+
[2025-02-25T17:12:55.131Z]	<Benjamin_Young>	present+
[2025-02-25T17:13:05.659Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Awesome all right all right so we're going to cover a couple things today we're going to talk about kind of blockchains and what you know well why they're difficult sometimes um how cryptographic event logs might be a simpler way to tackle some of the problems that blockchains are typically used for we're going to talk about how uh cryptographic logs work uh other projects that are you know uh sell like uh we're going to talk about did web VH um and did skid and kind of you know how they use uh logs um and then we are talk we're going to talk about how you know maybe we can use this stuff and apply to uh things that this community has worked on for a while like decentralized identifiers um and um potentially how this work could impact social networks um love to see that uh Brian Newbold uh from Blue Sky is here today so would love to hear your thoughts um on this stuff as we go.
[2025-02-25T17:13:09.483Z]	<Bryan_Newbold_(Bluesky)>	/me waves
[2025-02-25T17:13:12.247Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Feel free to interrupt as we go uh this is a very kind of loose presentation um.
[2025-02-25T17:14:01.034Z]	<Nivas>	present+
[2025-02-25T17:14:13.411Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Okay so let's get into it um now why are blockchains difficult to use so you know blockchains have now been around for you know well over a decade um uh some would argue even longer um they exist in the world today and they are useful things right um uh they have uh they they solve certain problems that we were not able to solve um uh before um so they're they're fundamentally like a really neat cool new technology relatively speaking um uh but there are some things that are difficult about uh blockchains um you know we were in the early days of blockchains we were thinking like oh they're going to totally take over the way we run organizations and make decisions and uh you know do ownership and you know 15 years later that hasn't necessarily uh happened but they are still in existence with massive um kind of.
[2025-02-25T17:14:14.593Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny:  kind of monetary value.
[2025-02-25T17:14:17.452Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Associated with them okay so.
[2025-02-25T17:14:53.687Z]	<Denken>	present+
[2025-02-25T17:15:18.429Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: What makes blockchains difficult to use though like why have they not expanded to to replace databases um well 1 of the 1 of the issues um with certain blockchains is that uh they burn a lot of energy now relatively speaking you there there's a good argument that they don't um uh but um in some cases you know you look at uh these massive Farms of mining machines that eat an enormous amount of energy um and that is viewed as you know um uh a concern uh to some people um on the other side of it you know the blockchains that don't burn a lot of energy they and you end up having to stake something of value which is money and then there's an argument there that like oh well you know those things are just centralizing on uh who has money and and who doesn't and you know that sort of thing there are all kinds of hybrid mechanisms.
[2025-02-25T17:15:19.140Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny:  in between you know.
[2025-02-25T17:15:24.009Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Electra based mechanisms you know things that have um.
[2025-02-25T17:16:24.890Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Levels of governance but fundamentally in order to get that governance right it takes a lot of effort like a lot of people have to get together and they have to agree so blockchains you know haven't been applied to every single problem because they are kind of heavyweight things to get up and and running um at scale so you burn a lot of energy you stake a lot of money or you just end up spending a lot of time in governance and the governance thing Falls over at certain scaling points so that's that's fundamentally why they're difficult difficult but they all pretty much do the same thing they they order a set of events right things happen they keep the State of the State of their world that they're tracking uh internally consistent um and fundamentally they are hard to use because it takes a lot of work either represented as energy burned or money spent or you know whom now or is taken.
[2025-02-25T17:16:29.996Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Work to agree on an overall state of the the system.
[2025-02-25T17:16:43.419Z]	<Steve_M>	present+
[2025-02-25T17:16:56.153Z]	<Nivas>	present+
[2025-02-25T17:17:30.835Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Um but and this is kind of the pitch behind cryptographic event logs is what if we don't have to agree on the system like every single Financial account uh in the system or every single um uh asset or token in the system um uh 1 of the ways to think about this is the the way the web happen so you know pre-web we had these hypertext systems in there was just this fundamental notion in these hypertext systems that you could never break a link like you know that the links were bidirectional you could go forward and backward and everything was internally consistent and they all you know pointed and and you know there was this complete graph that you could navigate forward and backward um but the web did 1 fundamental different thing um it proposed that you know what it's okay for us to break these links and and while that sounds like a normal part of the web today back then.
[2025-02-25T17:17:31.501Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny:  it was.
[2025-02-25T17:17:31.873Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Viewed as this just.
[2025-02-25T17:17:43.281Z]	<Phillip_Long>	present+
[2025-02-25T17:17:56.643Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Heretical concept right why would you have a computer which can keep things you know perfectly consistent in introduced this concept of a broken link who would even want that right um so the web succeeded because it it it changed this fundamental belief that you needed consistency um uh in the system.
[2025-02-25T17:18:00.621Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: So you know what if we kind of.
[2025-02-25T17:18:05.705Z]	<DavidC>	present+
[2025-02-25T17:18:25.223Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Try to solve this problem in the way the web solves this problem in that the web really only cares about like 1 Resource uh at a time uh at the most fundamental level and it allows broken links and so what if we allow broken links in a blockchain what if we allow a blockchain to have multiple different um uh ways that it can be interpreted um.
[2025-02-25T17:18:27.185Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: And I know that you know.
[2025-02-25T17:18:31.437Z]	<Denken>	present+
[2025-02-25T17:18:44.198Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: This has been talked about in the literature people have kind of tried to build this uh stuff but uh again with cryptographic event logs we're trying to take this idea um uh you know to to to its its natural natural end Okay so.
[2025-02-25T17:19:44.896Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Fundamentally what is a cryptographic event log um if we think about like a document that you're editing so you know you've got like a Google Document open or a Microsoft Excel thing open or whatever you make changes to that document over time you might write a sentence in the document and then go away for a couple days and come back and write another paragraph go away for a couple of days you come back and you revise what you wrote and each time there's kind of a change to that document and there's a history there in fact with like Google Docs you can go to the history and you can see all the changes that you've made over time and that is effectively an event log of how you've modified this document over time now a cryptographic event log adds something to that process it adds this concept of a witness uh and a witness all the witness has to do is say I saw your document at this point in time um and in fact the witness doesn't even have to see the document they just.
[2025-02-25T17:20:14.788Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: A cryptographic hash of the document and so each witness basically goes uh yes I saw your document and using the timeline on the screen here yes I saw your document on January 5th yes I saw your document on January 10th and these were the contents of it yes I saw your document on January 18th and this was you know the cryptographic hash and so on and so forth so that um anyone that's modifying this document can prove.
[2025-02-25T17:20:38.773Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: To anyone else that the document changed in a very specific way over a over a a a a series of you know time and and events in these witnesses as long as whoever's verifying these set of changes trusts at least 1 witness and this is where it kind of gets exciting um uh.
[2025-02-25T17:21:06.802Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Then you've proven the entire change log for the document and you haven't had to create a blockchain network you haven't had to get a bunch of people together to agree on who the electors uh or the the Witnesses are uh and and so on and so forth um so think about this as an adversarial process um and pretend that these Witnesses are nation states that do not like each other.
[2025-02-25T17:21:16.243Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Um the I think that the real power of this system is that you can have a set of witnesses um.
[2025-02-25T17:21:20.242Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: On a set of changes.
[2025-02-25T17:21:22.724Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Where they are.
[2025-02-25T17:21:53.349Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Of each other in the worst case or you know moderately you know they moderately dislike each other right in other cases um and as long as the person verifying it just trusts 1 of them it doesn't have to trust both of them but if it trusts 1 of them then it can be sure that a certain series of events happen and and even if it it trusts both of them if they're both saying the same thing and you know they're kind of like mortal enemies uh you've got a pretty.
[2025-02-25T17:22:08.277Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Belief that you know these sets of events happened okay so that's that's fundamentally what a cryptographic event log uh is at its at its core let me stop there and see if there are any questions on the concept.
[2025-02-25T17:22:12.721Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Or if Brian you want to add anything kind of to that.
[2025-02-25T17:22:14.577Z]	<Harrison_Tang>	q?
[2025-02-25T17:22:17.906Z]	<Harrison_Tang>	q+
[2025-02-25T17:22:21.589Z]	<Phillip_Long>	Q+ The witnesses are just verifiying the event happened and saw the log
[2025-02-25T17:22:30.396Z]	<Transcriber>	Harrison_Tang: Up the question um what's the incentive for the witnesses to uh basically verify or be the witness essentially.
[2025-02-25T17:22:33.204Z]	<Harrison_Tang>	ack harrison
[2025-02-25T17:22:56.908Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: That is an excellent question I don't know um is the is the is the honest answer that there there so this this concept um presumes that there is an incentive right so so for example um uh let me uh I don't know if Kim's here but let me let me pull like diff into this the decentralized identity Foundation.
[2025-02-25T17:23:57.677Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: If the diff cares about decentralized identifiers and decentralized identifiers documents um which they do um uh in in for example the w3c cares about that stuff they may set up witnessing Services um for decentralized identifiers documents um and and they and they do that because they want to see dids uh dids work um there are 2 ways to do that 1 of them they could do it so that um they do blind witnessing the other 1 is so that they know they can see the documents that that that are that are being changed the latter 1 being dangerous which we don't want to do right so so so so the incentive here is that organizations believe that having these witnessing mechanisms out there are important um uh in from a liability standpoint uh if that all they're doing is signing cryptographic hashes some organizations will view that as an acceptable.
[2025-02-25T17:23:58.311Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny:  level of risk.
[2025-02-25T17:23:58.592Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Meaning like they.
[2025-02-25T17:24:29.516Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: They don't know what the they don't know what hash they're signing is they just saw it at certain point in time and they're asserting that they they saw it at a certain point in time so um the the the I think the neat thing about these Witnesses is they don't all have to have the same incentives in fact they can have wildly different incentives but if the end result of that is they witness the event at a certain point in time then um then that's that's that's great and I see the the uh Q growing so I'm going to be quiet.
[2025-02-25T17:24:34.735Z]	<Harrison_Tang>	ack phil
[2025-02-25T17:24:53.755Z]	<Transcriber>	Phillip_Long: Yeah matter hi thank you um so you are I think partially answered what I was asking which is the Witnesses are simply acknowledging that they've looked at the document at the particular time and date that they did and they're not making any judgment or comment or anything about what they've seen other than that they did is that correct.
[2025-02-25T17:25:06.764Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: That is correct and in in I want to focus on they've looked at the document they don't even have to do that they just have to witness that a cryptographic hash existed at a certain point in time in fact that's.
[2025-02-25T17:25:17.255Z]	<Transcriber>	Phillip_Long: Okay so if the document is is is is in fact encrypted in some way that's fine they're just acknowledging they see it that that it is present if the document is something they can be done of course that can look at it.
[2025-02-25T17:25:20.165Z]	<Transcriber>	Phillip_Long: Okay all right thank you.
[2025-02-25T17:25:38.565Z]	<Transcriber>	Wolf_McNally: Hi thanks man um uh I'm curious why you felt that the Witnesses were uh actually a necessary feature of crypto cryptographic event logs without them what um what essential aspects of the system.
[2025-02-25T17:25:42.541Z]	<Transcriber>	Wolf_McNally: Are missing that you felt adding them was uh important for.
[2025-02-25T17:26:27.102Z]	<Phillip_Long>	Witnesses add third-party confirmation of the log and it's entries
[2025-02-25T17:26:29.516Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Yes that's an excellent point wolf it's so you can have um I think this is what you're you're getting at you can have a cryptographic event log without Witnesses um and at that point you're kind of uh uh depending on whoever created the law you're you're trusting whoever created the log right um Witnesses um at least the the 1 thing that we can see that Witnesses add is it allows um another kind of source of truth that you might trust more than the entity that created the cryptographic event log in the in the first place um so it's uh you can have a cryptographic event log with zero Witnesses um uh.
[2025-02-25T17:26:29.930Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny:  but we.
[2025-02-25T17:26:42.586Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Is add a level of further trust into the system uh that doesn't exist if you didn't have the witnesses did did that um make sense well.
[2025-02-25T17:26:49.949Z]	<Transcriber>	Wolf_McNally: Yeah I think it does um I wasn't clear from reading the original spec whether you considered witnesses to be an essential feature of the system or an optional feature of the system.
[2025-02-25T17:26:57.942Z]	<Transcriber>	Wolf_McNally: Great thank you.
[2025-02-25T17:27:01.696Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: I'd I'd suggest it's optional right now but we don't I I don't know if we have Clarity on that yet wolf like would love to hear other people's you know opinions on it um.
[2025-02-25T17:27:13.754Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Thing if we make it mandatory then we may accidentally uh remove a set of use cases that are important that's that's why I'm hesitant to make it mandatory at this point.
[2025-02-25T17:27:14.932Z]	<Transcriber>	Wolf_McNally: Excellent thank you.
[2025-02-25T17:27:21.810Z]	<Transcriber>	bobwyman: Yeah I think I think my concerns are.
[2025-02-25T17:27:31.361Z]	<Transcriber>	bobwyman: Similar to wolves um I I'm very surprised by the introduction of this idea of witness we as you said we've had cryptographic event logs.
[2025-02-25T17:27:33.313Z]	<Transcriber>	bobwyman: Very long time.
[2025-02-25T17:27:33.590Z]	<Transcriber>	bobwyman:  I mean.
[2025-02-25T17:27:46.360Z]	<Transcriber>	bobwyman: I was used them back in the in the early 90s but but without the necessity of any complex complexity like uh um like Witnesses I mean.
[2025-02-25T17:27:56.381Z]	<Transcriber>	bobwyman: Cryptographic event log can be simply created by by having whoever writes an event uh do do the hash updates um.
[2025-02-25T17:28:13.366Z]	<Transcriber>	bobwyman: It it it concerns me that you present this idea of essentially a specific form of cryptographic event log and event log which which relies on Witnesses under a title which is cryptographic event logs in other words the general title.
[2025-02-25T17:28:15.352Z]	<Transcriber>	bobwyman: Concern here is that.
[2025-02-25T17:29:06.569Z]	<Transcriber>	bobwyman: Presentation of this um it really would be better if you if you focused more on the fact that you are dealing with a specialized version of cryptographic event logs as opposed to the general class the general class of of of event logs doesn't require Witnesses this 1 May and it may have some particular advantages and if so those advantages should be clearly called out relative to the the the the the other members of the general class but um it just it just bothers me this in in many contexts we do this of adding on unnecessary complexity um when a appearing to Define fundamental concepts and in this case I think you've you've kind of done that you've added this witness thing to an idea which which doesn't require it.
[2025-02-25T17:29:21.466Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: That is a very fair point so perhaps what we need to do is rename the specification to something like witnessed cryptographic event logs or something more specific um because you're right I mean it does confuse.
[2025-02-25T17:29:24.430Z]	<Transcriber>	bobwyman: That I think would be excellent because you know I.
[2025-02-25T17:29:32.932Z]	<Transcriber>	bobwyman: Had this problem with people for instance say oh you can't actually have you know crypto cryptographic event logs without blockchain and it's like.
[2025-02-25T17:30:03.523Z]	<Transcriber>	bobwyman: How could anybody like so Mis fundamentally misunderstand the reality yet there there are people who make those statements regularly because they've been taught that uh that kind of algorithmic complexity is necessary to accomplish the basic function and we we we are not well served by having people believe such things anyway yes if you called it witness cryptographic event logs I think that would be wonderful to distinguish it from the general class.
[2025-02-25T17:30:10.062Z]	<Rashmi_Siravara>	present+
[2025-02-25T17:30:22.130Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Excellent so so let's let's uh let's let's make that change you know modulo what what the rest of the the community uh thinks um and yeah plus 1 let me you know like I said we haven't figured all this stuff out we're kind of presenting in its rough form to get feedback from the community um go go ahead Brian please.
[2025-02-25T17:30:46.785Z]	<Transcriber>	Brian: Yeah I just wanted to point out um like you said um like the witnessing feature of this is is I'd say an advanced version um like there is the basic version without Witnesses like like you pointed out um so I maybe witness the both event logs but uh I I don't think we should throw away the concept to this is possible without Witnesses in this uh data model.
[2025-02-25T17:31:46.654Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Yeah and we'll get into that when uh we get into kind of did web VH and and that sort of thing okay all right uh I'm going to keep going uh that's the the basic concept here um just so you know folks that like looking at code this is kind of what it looks like like this is the structure of a cryptographic event log um uh that has been witnessed you've got events and then you've got a set of proofs that are from the witnesses and the log consists of an event with proofs and event with proofs and event with proofs um there are other ways to structure it as as we'll get to when you know Brian talks about did Webb VH um but the fundamental concept hopefully is like pretty pretty simple uh and high level um if we want to look into what 1 of these events look like uh sorry what what 1 of these events uh look like um we've got a log we've got an event in operation which is a create operation on some.
[2025-02-25T17:32:33.547Z]	<Harrison_Tang>	q+
[2025-02-25T17:32:33.959Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Right so the data is just an object that says the name of this object is hello world and then it's got a digital signature on it no not from a witness it's just a digital signature from The Entity that created the data so this is a this is an unwitnessed um entry uh in the cryptographic event log um and it's really no more complicated than that right it's just a series of events with proofs uh optional you know witness proofs on it and then each entry is like a Creator update operation which you should look very familiar to many people in the group that you know work on blockchains and and things like that um there are a number of these other examples uh in the specification today.
[2025-02-25T17:33:02.809Z]	<Chandi_Cumaranatunge>	present+
[2025-02-25T17:33:24.983Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Okay so fundamentally uh cryptographic event logs are witnessed uh witness cryptographic event logs are like blockchains in that they order a set of events they order a set of events that modify kind of like this data object um but unlike blockchains they uh largely focus on a single resource though that's not always you know uh true but I think for the purposes of this discussion they just deal with a single resource uh the change is we're suggesting are like blindly witnessed um in their all kinds of privacy reasons to do that in liability reasons uh to do that from a witness perspective and the truth what the object what the series of events actually means is in the eye of the verifier.
[2025-02-25T17:33:27.609Z]	<Harrison_Tang>	q-
[2025-02-25T17:33:46.385Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Um which is again slightly different from you know the way uh some blockchains you know are are implemented um so truth is a perspective that a verifier can have rather than there being kind of a single uh uh uh source of Truth um uh Harrison you did sorry I saw you put yourself on the Queue do you have any questions on this.
[2025-02-25T17:33:55.916Z]	<Transcriber>	Harrison_Tang: Oh yeah just a clarification question so basically uh uh the proofs are chained together essentially right so make sure that okay cool.
[2025-02-25T17:34:08.854Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Yes absolutely yeah yeah that's that's the yeah I forgot to mention that earlier but yes the the proofs are changed chained together so that there is a very specific ordering of of events and when things happened.
[2025-02-25T17:34:14.826Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Uh let's see.
[2025-02-25T17:35:00.817Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Uh I don't know why I had this slide in there anyway uh moving on there are other cryptographic event log like projects blockchains right we've talked about blockchains as Bob mentioned like cryptographic event logs existed even before blockchains there's a certificate transparency stuff which you could view as kind of a cryptographic event log um and then you know to hand it over to to uh Brian uh there is also work in multiple did methods that kind of focus on uh cryptographic uh event logs um so Brian over to you to to take us through kind of did web VH and and you know what it what it does and how it does it.
[2025-02-25T17:35:13.569Z]	<Transcriber>	Brian: Yeah thanks man um yeah so uh the did method that we've been working on did web VH uh VH stands for verifiable history um so that's kind of a lead into the crypto event log part of it.
[2025-02-25T17:35:36.887Z]	<Transcriber>	Brian: So basically it works similar to did web um you publish all of your logs every update um instead of just the final output did document what you do did web um so these logs in uh in web VH they're not right now they're not a a cell they're not the exact format we've been looking at today but they're the same sort of concept so each.
[2025-02-25T17:35:43.423Z]	<Transcriber>	Brian: New entry sort of references the previous entry and that's where you get your your chaining of your logs.
[2025-02-25T17:35:55.068Z]	<Transcriber>	Brian: Um it uses the same did web HTTP transform to find the file uh all we did was we tacked on a an L onto the uh did Json to make it did did Json l.
[2025-02-25T17:36:10.845Z]	<Transcriber>	Brian: And that's that's just on lines which is um it's just a a file that is lines of of Json they're all separated by a new new line character there's nothing too crazy there they just um we just found that format to work for us.
[2025-02-25T17:36:20.423Z]	<Transcriber>	Brian: Um so that's what this gives you is your full verifiable history basically um and it's you can pull that down and and the resolvable uh.
[2025-02-25T17:36:26.415Z]	<Transcriber>	Brian: Verify the whole start to finish history when they when they need to see the current state of the document.
[2025-02-25T17:36:40.510Z]	<Transcriber>	Brian: Uh another feature that we kind of have in there is this this concept of a skid which may reference sort of briefly um which is what that is is essentially like a globally unique sort of hash that is the.
[2025-02-25T17:36:57.471Z]	<Transcriber>	Brian: Sort of like access the first hash in the chain um you're able to um add your first entry which has a reference to that and and you can sort of look at the input and and know that that got to that first uh date sort of thing.
[2025-02-25T17:37:13.510Z]	<Transcriber>	Brian: Um each of these log entries in our in our jsonl file is has this uh signatures data Integrity signatures um and these are solely the controller that creates those signatures there's no witnessing involved in that process there.
[2025-02-25T17:37:17.847Z]	<Transcriber>	Brian: So you can use this um this.
[2025-02-25T17:37:27.319Z]	<Transcriber>	Brian: Verification on that log entry and um if it passes then you you know that that the controller got to that point uh in a valid way.
[2025-02-25T17:37:31.807Z]	<Transcriber>	Brian: I know the concept we have in there is the is pre rotation of keys.
[2025-02-25T17:37:32.050Z]	<Transcriber>	Brian:  so that.
[2025-02-25T17:37:38.829Z]	<Transcriber>	Brian: Means is you're able to visually public publish the hash of the key that you say is going to be the next 1.
[2025-02-25T17:38:00.271Z]	<Transcriber>	Brian: And then when you make an update your your new key has to match that hash that you've already published so that allows you to um if you your key gets compromised your active key gets compromised you don't have to worry about um them the malicious attacker rotating away and creating a new um new history that you don't have control over certain thing.
[2025-02-25T17:38:08.691Z]	<Transcriber>	Brian: So we also do have the concept of a witness um how this works into the Webb is is actually in a different separate Json file.
[2025-02-25T17:38:14.357Z]	<Transcriber>	Brian: And the resolver has to pull that file down and verify that uh.
[2025-02-25T17:38:23.401Z]	<Transcriber>	Brian: Uh witness did did make valid signatures and they passed the threshold and out of of um signatures that we require.
[2025-02-25T17:38:26.460Z]	<Transcriber>	Brian: That the controller has set up as a requirement.
[2025-02-25T17:38:51.765Z]	<Transcriber>	Brian: And lastly we also have this concept of uh who is what which is is something we came up with that feels it pretty powerful what it is is basically um having a place a known place that uh has a bundle of verifiable credentials about the the did to sort of uh help a verifier when they're when they're judging if they trust that did.
[2025-02-25T17:38:56.070Z]	<Transcriber>	Brian: Um yes so next slide.
[2025-02-25T17:39:30.112Z]	<Transcriber>	Brian: Uh our next steps so essentially we've been working on this for um a better part of last year and this year and we're hoping that we can get to a version 1.0 soon um like very soon um we think we're basically there with all the features and everything sort of um hasn't been changing too much recently so we're hoping that we can call it you know uh essentially done ready to work um and 1 thing we are very interested though is this alignment with this uh.
[2025-02-25T17:39:34.644Z]	<Transcriber>	Brian: Specification that we're talking about today um it would be it's you know it's.
[2025-02-25T17:39:46.681Z]	<Transcriber>	Brian: Formed data model and it would be great to have alignment here in that way um like I said there our current logs are not quite this exact format but they're quite similar so it wouldn't take too much change.
[2025-02-25T17:39:53.258Z]	<Transcriber>	Brian: We think that maybe that would open up like a potential path for using cell and and um.
[2025-02-25T17:40:04.465Z]	<Transcriber>	Brian: Web and and skid did skid altogether to sort of make a new um version of did web that is just cryptographically verifiable history of of the logs and stuff.
[2025-02-25T17:40:17.045Z]	<Transcriber>	Brian: Uh so if you go to the next yeah so here um I broke up all of the different features that I've gone over into sort of those buckets that I just listed so the first ones there you see they're sort of just.
[2025-02-25T17:40:20.794Z]	<Wolf_McNally>	present+
[2025-02-25T17:40:21.129Z]	<Chandi_Cumaranatunge>	present+
[2025-02-25T17:40:29.351Z]	<Transcriber>	Brian: You do these sort of stuff on the on the web um we added you know our who is on there how do you find that and how to transform the um the did into a uh.
[2025-02-25T17:40:48.501Z]	<Transcriber>	Brian: A location to download the file and that sort of stuff and then there's the features that are pretty much the same as what cell kind of provides so um being able to witness things and being able to uh sign the the the update and uh having that full verifiable history.
[2025-02-25T17:40:57.310Z]	<Transcriber>	Brian: Then um the last thing we've sort of uh bucketed there is this this concept of a skid um so basically being able to.
[2025-02-25T17:41:13.724Z]	<Transcriber>	Brian: Know being able to address the the the did in this case right I'm having this this globally unique um identifier that you are able to use to verify the of the input certainly.
[2025-02-25T17:41:22.989Z]	<Transcriber>	Brian: Um yeah so that's kind of our our thinking around how these sorts of things could align um and yeah.
[2025-02-25T17:41:23.584Z]	<Transcriber>	Brian:  next slide I think.
[2025-02-25T17:41:23.779Z]	<Transcriber>	Brian: I think that's.
[2025-02-25T17:41:27.659Z]	<Transcriber>	Brian: Kind of all I had for uh did web VH.
[2025-02-25T17:41:29.795Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Awesome thanks Brian.
[2025-02-25T17:41:36.348Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Um any any questions on kind of did web VH and direction it's going and that sort of thing.
[2025-02-25T17:41:58.596Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: I will mention that you know there's this um did method standardization or incubation work that's happening at the decentralized identity foundation and uh you know did web VH is like 1 of The Front Runners I think for.
[2025-02-25T17:42:13.562Z]	<Harrison_Tang>	q+
[2025-02-25T17:42:15.103Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Things that we would like to see in a did Webb like you know method um it's got a lot of really cool features uh that I think would be generally useful um uh as upgrades uh optional upgrades to did web.
[2025-02-25T17:42:47.894Z]	<Transcriber>	Harrison_Tang: Uh sorry uh yeah a clarification question um so I know there's like a lot of deep methods out there and then some deep methods will check some of the boxes like for example the the self-certifying identifier there are some methods that does it so is it true that did what VH is trying to basically be the standard or like 1 of the more popular did methods that check all these boxes is that is that true or no.
[2025-02-25T17:43:29.220Z]	<Transcriber>	Brian: Um yeah I mean it we're trying to to check as many many of the boxes as possible um I think you know the the fact that you have to rely on the web server uh there's a certain sort of control uh placed in that web server uh so it's not I would say it's not fully self Sovereign in in a way like um a you know a third-party entity that is relying on some web server that they don't control of course has to have some level of control in there there's also uh you know DNS factors into that there's maybe not ideal that you have to kind of resolve domain names um but yeah I'd say we're trying to trying to take as many boxes as possible.
[2025-02-25T17:43:45.213Z]	<Transcriber>	Harrison_Tang: And also another clarification question for the who is feature is the verifiable presentation uh containing the verifiable credentials about basically the controller is that is that correct or.
[2025-02-25T17:43:55.606Z]	<Transcriber>	Brian: Yeah that's right yeah yeah that that concept is sort of like um here's a list of or here's a bunch of VCS about me um here's my you know license to.
[2025-02-25T17:44:11.597Z]	<Transcriber>	Brian: On the internet on uh this sort of certain product here and then the resolver the verifier is able to pull that down and be like oh yeah they've got this um this CNC from this third party that we trust kind of thing.
[2025-02-25T17:44:55.145Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Yeah like like for a business like you know here's here's my you know business um uh did uh here is my uh uh um you know verification that I am a a registered business in this province or this state or this nation uh you know here is uh here are the products that uh you know I sell these are certified by you know these um you know uh consumer authorities things like that like you know the ability for uh a business to express things that it is licensed and uh validly operating uh for example um.
[2025-02-25T17:44:55.577Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny:  I think.
[2025-02-25T17:45:20.567Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: We're we're I don't think we're suggesting like you know someone would take their driver's license and like post it on their website um in in who is I think this is largely for things that you want to be public um uh like you're verified you know um uh uh social media accounts or that you're verified business or you know your store hours or things of that nature.
[2025-02-25T17:46:25.264Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Um moving in real quick uh to the to the end here um so there is a way that we can put these Technologies together as Brian was mentioning um uh in a way that might get us to kind of the the the Holy Grail you know what whatever you want to you know call it Promised Land of dids which is a truly decentralized um uh did method that uh is not uh part that is not dependent on a blockchain right um so uh if we construct the witness uh mechanism in a way where uh you only need a handful of Witnesses on your did document as it changed through changes through time um if we can construct it in a way where it doesn't really matter which domain you put the the history log on um there is a way that we could create a really lightweight fully decentralized.
[2025-02-25T17:46:43.872Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Did method built on these Concepts so like did web VH is like very very close to that right there is still that domain binding that Brian was talking about and you know there there's a design decision there um because you know there was a there was a desire to have compatibility with did web which a lot of.
[2025-02-25T17:46:47.297Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Large organizations like to see um.
[2025-02-25T17:47:08.875Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: But it doesn't take a lot of work to kind of look at did web VH in a certain light or did skid in a certain light and go like you know what we can totally break that tie with the domain and make it fully portable in fact they're you know there's a mechanism in the web VH that does allow uh you to Port documents from 1 1 domain to the other so.
[2025-02-25T17:47:59.078Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: That fundamentally it's kind of built on this concept of cryptographic event logs and Witnesses if you have those things then all of a sudden you don't necessarily need a blockchain for a fully decentralized in method and this is particularly exciting because we're getting ready to try and do some of the first Global standards for did methods um and if we get this right it means that we will have kind of solved the thing that we had initially uh set out to solve with decentralized identifiers now it doesn't mean that it's the only you know decentralized identifiers you know mechanism there can be many many different ones um because of the design of Deads but it means that maybe we finally hit something that everyone can agree to um to use that is way more decentralized than than what we have uh today.
[2025-02-25T17:48:06.076Z]	<Steve_M>	r.e. portability - how do you ensure time stamp alignment across domains?
[2025-02-25T17:48:14.428Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: So the technology is applicable directly applicable to Deads you know it's directly applicable to any document that changes over over time any any binary data that changes over time uh but specifically it's uh useful um uh for DS.
[2025-02-25T17:48:18.371Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: The other thing that it could be useful for.
[2025-02-25T17:49:04.749Z]	<Kayode_Ezike>	Remind me: do you intend to incorporate the whois service into the core DID spec or does did:webvh just use the existing DID service format to provide the whois service?
[2025-02-25T17:49:19.300Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: And this is where we need you know uh help help kind of understanding the the design space uh from Brian Newbold and the other folks at Blue Sky and the folks that worked on activity Pub and all that kind of stuff um I have been talking with uh Christine uh who was the you know the primary architect behind activity Pub about this uh and she's really excited about it because you know this would allow us to create a more decentralized kind of way of doing posts and responses and modifications and things like that so if you think if you think of like inactivity Pub post um uh with a cryptographic event log and Witnesses um you could 1 W witness the post over time so I definitely said this thing at this point in time and I definitely modified it at this point in time there's a there's a you know a transparency authenticity part of people posting things right people wouldn't be able to just delete things um sometimes that.
[2025-02-25T17:49:20.066Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny:  that's a good thing and you want.
[2025-02-25T17:49:53.009Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: It's a bad thing and you don't want that feature um uh but you know we could do this with posts and profiles and all kinds of other things in in in Social uh media and we could get full portability of these data objects um uh you know that that is also a a full cryptographically provable portability um of our our kind of social media uh posts and and things like that um uh so it ends up operating.
[2025-02-25T17:49:56.882Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Being a more decentralized uh uh manner.
[2025-02-25T17:49:59.206Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny:  I think that's large.
[2025-02-25T17:50:02.901Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: It you know what are the next steps here like you know.
[2025-02-25T17:50:32.235Z]	<Markus_Sabadello>	DIF DID Methods WG: https://github.com/decentralized-identity/did-methods/
[2025-02-25T17:50:56.254Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: If you are interested in any of this stuff like working with the did web VH group you know would be uh would be 1 place that you could contribute or learn more there's also the deaf did methods working group right now where we're incubating some of these you know specifications uh there will be a w3c did methods working group uh probably at some point this year um I should we are there enough people that are interested in this just to talk about the the cell based you know did method um uh in you know where else can we collaborate on this stuff you know what what else can we use this technology to do that people are interested in um okay I think that's that's largely it um Brian would you want to share like what's the best way for people to kind of participate in the did web VH work.
[2025-02-25T17:50:59.216Z]	<Bryan_Newbold_(Bluesky)>	q+
[2025-02-25T17:51:07.082Z]	<Harrison_Tang>	q-
[2025-02-25T17:51:14.506Z]	<Transcriber>	Brian: Yeah sure um yes we have a first of all we have a slack group in the uh diff slack um so I was chatting in there and then we have meetings every Thursday at um I think it's 8 a.m. or 9 am Pacific and so every other Thursday sorry so that is this Thursday we have 1.
[2025-02-25T17:51:17.129Z]	<Transcriber>	Brian: It's in the diff calendar.
[2025-02-25T17:51:20.728Z]	<Transcriber>	Brian: And then just check if it's not Amber 8 a.m. yeah it's 9 am.
[2025-02-25T17:51:23.636Z]	<Transcriber>	Brian: Yeah so please join us there.
[2025-02-25T17:51:27.117Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: It's 9 a.m. uh Pacific did you say Brian.
[2025-02-25T17:51:31.609Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: All right I think we have.
[2025-02-25T17:51:40.824Z]	<Transcriber>	Harrison_Tang: Cool I think we have a couple questions in the queue so first of all uh Steve had a question in regards to portability how do you ensure time stamp alignments across domains.
[2025-02-25T17:52:26.952Z]	<Denken>	q+
[2025-02-25T17:52:40.350Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: That's an excellent question that's 1 of those that's 1 of those things where it's kind of like uh it depends on the verifier and what the verifier you know as long as aligned with you know we have mechanisms that that I think 1 of the ideal things is that to use a timestamping service you have to make sure that it's clock is aligned with other timestamping services and that's something that we would probably have to put into the protocol to make sure that um you know it is using an atomic clock um appropriately um I will assert that that's largely a s solved problem on the on the internet like since the the 90s um but it is possible to have clock skew and clock drift and it's possible to have that in a way that matters in a particular set of you know cryptographic event logs um like for example if you're doing high frequency trading you probably wouldn't be able to use witnesses that did not also have like very strongly synced um uh uh uh atomic clocks right.
[2025-02-25T17:53:00.497Z]	<Transcriber>	Harrison_Tang: Cool I have 4 more questions so I'll quickly go through them so coyote has a question in regards to do you you tend to incorporate the who is service into the court did spec or does did web VH just use the existing disservice format to provide the who is service.
[2025-02-25T17:53:18.315Z]	<Transcriber>	Brian: Um yeah that's a good question um I think we think it's we think it's a very useful feature and so we kind of uh are urging more did methods to sort of adopt it um I think there's there is some talk about spinning it out as it's as its own sort of extension.
[2025-02-25T17:53:21.726Z]	<bobwyman>	Lamport's paper on clocks was published in 1978...
[2025-02-25T17:53:23.291Z]	<Transcriber>	Brian: Application um and then just pointing to that um but yeah we.
[2025-02-25T17:53:52.077Z]	<Transcriber>	Brian: How are you how it works is um we have an implicit um files resolver sort of thing um or linked to VP um which is another diff specification um so we have an implicit linked VP service that if the um controller doesn't override that it will just um uh fall back to the same sort of path as the uh did jsonl file uh so if you.
[2025-02-25T17:53:52.371Z]	<Transcriber>	Brian:  if you don't.
[2025-02-25T17:53:58.687Z]	<Transcriber>	Brian: Sort of update that to be some other path you will find your your who is in that path.
[2025-02-25T17:54:00.653Z]	<Kayode_Ezike>	Thanks  :+1:
[2025-02-25T17:54:06.481Z]	<Transcriber>	Harrison_Tang: Cool thank you Brian a brand new board you're on the queue.
[2025-02-25T17:54:09.673Z]	<Harrison_Tang>	ack bran
[2025-02-25T17:54:13.953Z]	<Harrison_Tang>	ack bryan
[2025-02-25T17:54:17.369Z]	<Kayode_Ezike>	present+
[2025-02-25T17:54:50.145Z]	<Transcriber>	Bryan_Newbold_(Bluesky): Hey um well I'm gonna reply there's there's some like kind of I don't so I don't have a question but I want to just have a couple comments uh so we have uh we at Blue Sky and in at protocol have a did method called did PLC which in this kind of ontology aligns closest to scid there's skid so it's just they're just they're not bound to a domain um they're they're chained logs like per account or per did so there's not a global you know there's not a global uh blockchain or anything like that at least for now um that each in in our system each event signs is signed by the previous event so there they are they're not blindly like they're they're expected to be verified.
[2025-02-25T17:54:50.792Z]	<Transcriber>	Bryan_Newbold_(Bluesky):  we consider.
[2025-02-25T17:55:45.653Z]	<Transcriber>	Bryan_Newbold_(Bluesky): Like the design of it is that they're completely free floating they're not bound to any particular domain or any particular thing that's kind of a hack to just get the system off the ground we have a central directory that people send um their operations or their events to but the idea is that those are you know 1 way to think of those so that they're just witnesses that cache the results in other people can query those witnesses to get uh a set of the logs back so instead of hosting the event log on like a web server that's you know bound to a domain any you know you could have these large directories or directory services that that cache them um that you know there's some work to be done there about how to decentralize that a little bit more and we're super out um interested in talking about that but the the kind of core of it is kind of just the scid mechanism um some of the things that have come up from that you know there's like rate limiting that would also be an issue with witnessing I would assume like how do you come up with a policy around you know.
[2025-02-25T17:55:46.119Z]	<Transcriber>	Bryan_Newbold_(Bluesky):  we think.
[2025-02-25T17:56:07.445Z]	<Alex_Higuera_(DCC)>	present+
[2025-02-25T17:56:19.636Z]	<Transcriber>	Bryan_Newbold_(Bluesky): Well you know these directories are witnesses to scale just fine to like billions of um or even like tens of billions of events and things like that but there's like well what about trillions what about Millions per second um does that become a problem uh we've had some there's been some design questions around harmful events uh so on like a blockchain we want to be able to go out and pull out events about how do you do that in a transparent manner so as an example you know if someone stuffs harmful content in a base 64 encoded string that gets stuffed and it did document you need to be able to pull that out um at some point um.
[2025-02-25T17:56:32.461Z]	<Transcriber>	Bryan_Newbold_(Bluesky): Uh and account recovery with multiple Keys that's also we have that feature I can't remember if that was put yeah the pre- rotation key so it does really kind of aligned with skid um anyways that's a bit of a ramble not much of a question sorry.
[2025-02-25T17:56:35.198Z]	<Transcriber>	Harrison_Tang: Thank you thank you Brian.
[2025-02-25T17:56:36.138Z]	<Harrison_Tang>	ack wolf
[2025-02-25T17:56:57.613Z]	<Wolf_McNally>	Provenance Marks White Paper:
https://github.com/BlockchainCommons/Research/blob/master/papers/bcr-2025-001-provenance-mark.md

A Comparison of Provenance Marks to Cryptographic Event Logs
https://hackmd.io/@bc-community/HycjswAIyx

My personal Provenance Mark chain:
https://provemark.com/wolf

Me: Lead Researcher, Blockchain Commons
wolf@wolfmcnally.com
[2025-02-25T17:57:25.778Z]	<Harrison_Tang>	the DID PLC that Bryan shared earlier https://github.com/did-method-plc/did-method-plc
[2025-02-25T17:57:30.023Z]	<Transcriber>	Wolf_McNally: Hi uh thanks so most of you probably don't know me Manu does um I'm the leader lead researcher for a nonprofit called blockchain Commons and I've been working on a project for um a couple years now actually that uh blockchain commonly took over called Providence marks and I just wanted to um uh I'm not giving a presentation obviously here I wanted to drop a few links into the chat um which I just did um to the white paper on Providence marks and because they are definitely relevant to the interests of the president group and I'd love to receive some um early feedback on them um in addition to the white paper I also have a link there to hack empty document that actually Compares uh Providence marks in their current form with what I understand to be cryptic about graphic event logs um as well as a link to my personal uh Province Mark chain I have a reference implementations in both um.
[2025-02-25T17:58:11.452Z]	<Harrison_Tang>	q?
[2025-02-25T17:58:20.022Z]	<Transcriber>	Wolf_McNally: Rust and Swift available now including a rust command line tool that generates the next Providence Mark in a chain and um um 1 of the main things that I think is unique about Providence Marx is each Mark which is actually a relatively small binary structure includes a pre-commitment to the next Mark in the chain and this allows each Mark to be published um without uh an actual cryptographic signature um as well as I think in many cases obvious the need for for Witnesses um but I you know haven't like proved that in any deep sense yet um but I would love to receive some early feedback from this group on um what ideas they think in Providence Marx might be um interesting useful not useful um and uh I'm just very open to any kind of feedback so um that's all I have to say.
[2025-02-25T17:58:22.966Z]	<Transcriber>	Harrison_Tang: Thank you well.
[2025-02-25T17:58:28.089Z]	<Harrison_Tang>	ack denken
[2025-02-25T17:58:41.494Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	q+ to respond to wolf (presentation please?) and Bryan (collaboration?)
[2025-02-25T17:59:42.965Z]	<Transcriber>	Harrison_Tang: Thank you Dan and by the way you're building the talent talent digital wallet right is that right.
[2025-02-25T17:59:54.172Z]	<Transcriber>	Harrison_Tang: Cool great so yeah we'll have you uh hopefully you can jump on and to present your work uh uh a month or 2 months later.
[2025-02-25T17:59:59.484Z]	<Harrison_Tang>	ack manu
[2025-02-25T18:00:50.952Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Yeah real quick before we wrap up um I wanted to see I I think it'd be awesome to have Wolf come and present um his uh work on the province Mark stuff I think that might be the best way for you to get feedback wolf on it and I really very what you said was really intriguing to me so would love to you know spend an hour uh on that um the the other item I guess is for um uh Brian I mean 1 of the things Brian that you know I think we're struggling with and did the diff did methods working group is like PLC is the largest deployed did method out there and we want to make sure that whatever we create is uh highly aligned um or use it reuses it or or something right and so what would be the best way to collaborate with you in that discussion.
[2025-02-25T18:00:55.771Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Knowing that your time is precious in in in right.
[2025-02-25T18:01:00.741Z]	<Transcriber>	Bryan_Newbold_(Bluesky): Yeah if you if you email me directly I'm happy to check calls um around that.
[2025-02-25T18:01:12.450Z]	<Transcriber>	Harrison_Tang: Great so wolf I'll send you an email and then coordinate a time you don't mind to talk about the Providence marks.
[2025-02-25T18:01:13.258Z]	<Transcriber>	Wolf_McNally: That would be excellent thank you so much.
[2025-02-25T18:01:25.964Z]	<Transcriber>	Harrison_Tang: Great all right I think we're at time um right at time so thank you thank you Manu and thank you Brian for jumping on and need a great discussion about this concludes this week's ccg call thanks.
[2025-02-25T18:15:25.399Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	present+
