Thanks to Nis Jespersen  and Our Robot Overlords for scribing this week!

The transcript for the call is now available here:

https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/2024-06-20/

Full text of the discussion follows for W3C archival purposes.
Audio of the meeting is available at the following location:

https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/2024-06-20/audio.ogg

A video recording is also available at:

https://meet.w3c-ccg.org/archives/w3c-ccg-weekly-2024-06-20.mp4

----------------------------------------------------------------
Verifiable Traceability Task Force Transcript for 2024-06-20

Agenda:
  https://www.w3.org/Search/Mail/Public/advanced_search?hdr-1-name=subject&hdr-1-query=%5BAGENDA&period_month=Jun&period_year=2024&index-grp=Public__FULL&index-type=t&type-index=public-credentials&resultsperpage=20&sortby=date
Organizer:
  Orie Steele, Mike Prorock, Mahmoud Alkhraishi
Scribe:
  Nis Jespersen  and Our Robot Overlords
Present:
  Mahmoud Alkhraishi, brentz, Nis Jespersen , Russell H (mesur.io), 
  Ted Thibodeau, TallTed // Ted Thibodeau (he/him) (OpenLinkSw.com)

Nis Jespersen  is scribing.
Our Robot Overlords are scribing.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Hi welcome to the traceability call.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  For June 20th.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Uh what's uh let me turn off the 
  transcriber.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  No open PRs this week [scribe assist by Nis 
  Jespersen ]
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3A1.0
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3A1.0+sort%3Aupdated-asc
<nis> Is 532 v1-worthy?
Nis Jespersen :  I would not fight for this in v1 [scribe assist 
  by Nis Jespersen ]
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/867
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Removing v1 label [scribe assist by Nis 
  Jespersen ]
<tallted> regrets+
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/564
Nis Jespersen :  Going through the checklist [scribe assist by 
  Nis Jespersen ]
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/867
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/596
Nis Jespersen :  Checked all boxes on 867, closing [scribe assist 
  by Nis Jespersen ]
Nis Jespersen :  Will check ours on 596 [scribe assist by Nis 
  Jespersen ]
Nis Jespersen :  Same [scribe assist by Nis Jespersen ]
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/827
<tallted> regrets-
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Please address your v1 issues by next week. 
  [scribe assist by Nis Jespersen ]
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/659
<nis> Even if we aim to cut v1 along with interop a little later.
Nis Jespersen :  Last time we discussed moving to /verify, just 
  for the matter of testing [scribe assist by Nis Jespersen ]
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  It should be the VP, not the VC verified 
  [scribe assist by Nis Jespersen ]
<nis> So, same payload as /presentations
<tallted> (it might be a good idea to get the calendar entry for 
  these meetings updated, so Orie and Mike are no longer listed as 
  the meeting moderators, etc.)
Nis Jespersen :  I only want to make sure we are not 
  re-introducing conformance, which we have decided to move away 
  from [scribe assist by Nis Jespersen ]
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/660
Nis Jespersen :  We got agreement on this last week [scribe 
  assist by Nis Jespersen ]
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  1.0? [scribe assist by Nis Jespersen ]
Nis Jespersen :  Yes [scribe assist by Nis Jespersen ]
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/529
Nis Jespersen :  I can assign myself, but can't promise a 
  deadline [scribe assist by Nis Jespersen ]
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/645
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/657
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Work on the spec language first, then update 
  fixtures [scribe assist by Nis Jespersen ]
Nis Jespersen :  Agreed [scribe assist by Nis Jespersen ]
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  We can see the finish line! [scribe assist 
  by Nis Jespersen ]
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Time back? [scribe assist by Nis Jespersen ]
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Stick with weekly schedule [scribe assist by 
  Nis Jespersen ]
