[2024-06-20T19:00:28.793Z]	<Mahmoud>	present+
[2024-06-20T19:01:18.507Z]	<brentz>	present+
[2024-06-20T19:02:15.263Z]	<nis>	present+
[2024-06-20T19:05:02.355Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	present+
[2024-06-20T19:06:14.149Z]	<Mahmoud>	present+
[2024-06-20T19:06:43.322Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	present+
[2024-06-20T19:07:16.712Z]	<nis>	scribe+
[2024-06-20T19:07:31.779Z]	<Transcriber>	scribe+
[2024-06-20T19:07:31.780Z]	<Transcriber>	Meeting: traceability
[2024-06-20T19:07:47.483Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: Hi welcome to the traceability call.
[2024-06-20T19:07:50.021Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: For June 20th.
[2024-06-20T19:07:54.661Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: Uh what's uh let me turn off the transcriber.
[2024-06-20T19:08:35.875Z]	<nis>	Mahmoud: No open PRs this week
[2024-06-20T19:08:52.364Z]	<Mahmoud>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3A1.0
[2024-06-20T19:09:02.579Z]	<Mahmoud>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3A1.0+sort%3Aupdated-asc
[2024-06-20T19:10:34.052Z]	<nis>	Is 532 v1-worthy?
[2024-06-20T19:11:09.344Z]	<nis>	Nis: I would not fight for this in v1
[2024-06-20T19:11:16.743Z]	<Mahmoud>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/867
[2024-06-20T19:11:17.688Z]	<nis>	Mahmoud: removing v1 label
[2024-06-20T19:11:41.284Z]	<TallTed>	regrets+
[2024-06-20T19:13:36.261Z]	<Mahmoud>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/564
[2024-06-20T19:13:40.474Z]	<nis>	Nis: going through the checklist
[2024-06-20T19:15:04.882Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/867
[2024-06-20T19:15:27.657Z]	<Mahmoud>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/596
[2024-06-20T19:15:35.176Z]	<nis>	Nis: checked all boxes on 867, closing
[2024-06-20T19:16:29.944Z]	<nis>	Russell: will check ours on 596
[2024-06-20T19:16:32.435Z]	<nis>	Nis: same
[2024-06-20T19:16:33.156Z]	<Mahmoud>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/827
[2024-06-20T19:16:37.764Z]	<TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com)>	present+
[2024-06-20T19:16:41.511Z]	<TallTed>	regrets-
[2024-06-20T19:20:03.236Z]	<nis>	Mahmoud: please address your v1 issues by next week.
[2024-06-20T19:20:14.957Z]	<Mahmoud>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/659
[2024-06-20T19:20:25.744Z]	<nis>	Even if we aim to cut v1 along with interop a little later.
[2024-06-20T19:23:30.157Z]	<nis>	Nis: last time we discussed moving to /verify, just for the matter of testing
[2024-06-20T19:23:42.565Z]	<nis>	Mahmoud: it should be the VP, not the VC verified
[2024-06-20T19:23:53.082Z]	<nis>	So, same payload as /presentations
[2024-06-20T19:25:03.694Z]	<TallTed>	(it might be a good idea to get the calendar entry for these meetings updated, so Orie and Mike are no longer listed as the meeting moderators, etc.)
[2024-06-20T19:26:08.882Z]	<nis>	Nis: I only want to make sure we are not re-introducing conformance, which we have decided to move away from
[2024-06-20T19:28:12.862Z]	<Mahmoud>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/660
[2024-06-20T19:28:53.300Z]	<nis>	Nis: we got agreement on this last week
[2024-06-20T19:28:58.156Z]	<nis>	Mahmoud: 1.0?
[2024-06-20T19:29:03.201Z]	<nis>	Nis: yes
[2024-06-20T19:29:54.713Z]	<Mahmoud>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/529
[2024-06-20T19:30:00.679Z]	<nis>	Nis: I can assign myself, but can't promise a deadline
[2024-06-20T19:30:31.326Z]	<Mahmoud>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/645
[2024-06-20T19:31:35.338Z]	<Mahmoud>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/657
[2024-06-20T19:33:06.720Z]	<nis>	Mahmoud: work on the spec language first, then update fixtures
[2024-06-20T19:33:14.677Z]	<nis>	nis: agreed
[2024-06-20T19:33:43.549Z]	<nis>	Mahmoud: we can see the finish line!
[2024-06-20T19:34:01.099Z]	<nis>	Mahmoud: time back?
[2024-06-20T19:34:24.182Z]	<nis>	Mahmoud: stick with weekly schedule
