[2025-02-21T15:56:29.358Z]	<Ildiko_Mazar> agenda: https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-vc-edu/2025Feb/0003.html

[2025-02-24T15:59:52.478Z]	<Dmitri_Zagidulin>	present+
[2025-02-24T15:59:52.480Z]	<Rob_Coyle>	present+
[2025-02-24T15:59:52.480Z]	<Curtis_Indyke>	present+
[2025-02-24T15:59:52.481Z]	<Brooke_Lipsitz_(ASU)>	present+
[2025-02-24T16:00:07.941Z]	<Eric_Shepherd>	present+
[2025-02-24T16:00:21.479Z]	<Curtis_Indyke>	present+
[2025-02-24T16:00:47.175Z]	<Kate_Giovacchini,_TLN>	present+
[2025-02-24T16:00:51.900Z]	<Stuart_Freeman>	present+
[2025-02-24T16:01:00.489Z]	<Alex_Higuera_(DCC)>	present+
[2025-02-24T16:01:01.133Z]	<Kate_Giovacchini,_TLN>	Good morning ya'll!
[2025-02-24T16:01:02.915Z]	<Jack_Durkin>	present+
[2025-02-24T16:01:06.612Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	present+
[2025-02-24T16:01:06.672Z]	<Ildiko_Mazar>	present+
[2025-02-24T16:01:21.273Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	Hello all!
[2025-02-24T16:01:33.011Z]	<Brooke_Lipsitz_(ASU)>	present+
[2025-02-24T16:01:42.616Z]	<Abhishek_Singh>	present+
[2025-02-24T16:01:43.413Z]	<Rob_Coyle>	present+
[2025-02-24T16:01:53.053Z]	<James_Chartrand>	present+
[2025-02-24T16:02:14.232Z]	<TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com)>	present+
[2025-02-24T16:02:15.728Z]	<Beth_-_Gobekli>	present+
[2025-02-24T16:02:34.593Z]	<Marianna_Milkis,_ASU_Pocket>	present+
[2025-02-24T16:03:01.629Z]	<Transcriber>	scribe+
[2025-02-24T16:03:01.629Z]	<Transcriber>	Meeting: education
[2025-02-24T16:03:03.970Z]	<Amruth_Gouda>	present+
[2025-02-24T16:03:04.396Z]	<Stuart_Freeman>	present+
[2025-02-24T16:03:11.009Z]	<Kristen_Franklin>	present+
[2025-02-24T16:03:18.284Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Zagidulin: Yeah there we go all right uh so does anybody does anybody new here uh in the group and wants to uh.
[2025-02-24T16:03:31.309Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Zagidulin: Introduced themselves or those who haven't done that in a while may want to hop on the Queue and reintroduce we use the queue by just raising the hands or typing Q Plus in jitsi chat.
[2025-02-24T16:03:35.291Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Zagidulin: Uh Beth go ahead.
[2025-02-24T16:03:38.290Z]	<Colin_Reynolds,_Ed_Design_Lab>	present+
[2025-02-24T16:03:50.536Z]	<Transcriber>	Beth_-_Gobekli: Hey everybody um I'm Beth I'm from Gobekli uh I'm joined today just part as um coyote had a conflict so uh excited to see what and learn what's going on um here in the group and and see what's being presented today.
[2025-02-24T16:03:55.125Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	Hi Beth!
[2025-02-24T16:03:57.805Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Zagidulin: Thank you welcome uh glad to have another another person from the Gobekli team uh we love what they're doing.
[2025-02-24T16:04:02.540Z]	<Transcriber>	Beth_-_Gobekli: Well thank you yeah we're we're we love being here and I've heard great things about this uh this group so.
[2025-02-24T16:04:04.069Z]	<Transcriber>	Beth_-_Gobekli: Thanks for having me.
[2025-02-24T16:04:07.993Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Zagidulin: Anyone else want to hop on the queue.
[2025-02-24T16:04:16.315Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Zagidulin: All right in that case let's move on to communion announcements does anybody have.
[2025-02-24T16:04:23.823Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Zagidulin: Ments of conferences uh webinars and so on uh coming up.
[2025-02-24T16:04:25.650Z]	<Beth_-_Gobekli>	Hi Kerri!
[2025-02-24T16:04:30.878Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Zagidulin: We of course have iaw the internet identity Workshop coming up in April I believe.
[2025-02-24T16:04:48.767Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q+
[2025-02-24T16:04:50.489Z]	<Transcriber>	Brooke_Lipsitz_(ASU): Uh 1 at Tech is coming to Phoenix next week um and the tln is hosting a salon event uh wrapping up that conference so if anyone's planning on coming in for 1 at Tech please let us know and we'd love to have you at our Salon event.
[2025-02-24T16:04:52.479Z]	<Kate_Giovacchini,_TLN>	We are going to have fun
[2025-02-24T16:04:54.545Z]	<Colin>	present+
[2025-02-24T16:04:56.623Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Zagidulin: Excellent Carrie you're up next.
[2025-02-24T16:05:00.259Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Awesome hi everybody I will definitely be stopping by that Salon event.
[2025-02-24T16:05:24.512Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: I think TL and it's awesome um and I'll also be at the 1 at Tech digital credentials Summit next week um on various uh sessions 1 with Georgia Tech to talk about digital degrees um and um all the the challenges of applying open badges to that uh with the credential engine test water is for registry project with digital promise to talk about open source badge issuing software.
[2025-02-24T16:05:39.741Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: A couple others I'm sorry that I'm not forgetting in front of me but um 1 I think that is really interesting though be a general session on um trusted credentials and quality and I'm really looking forward to that 1 specifically so we can talk a lot about that.
[2025-02-24T16:05:42.722Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: So hope to see you all there too it'd be great.
[2025-02-24T16:05:49.031Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Zagidulin: Thanks Gary sounds sounds exciting I can't wait to hear all about it afterwards.
[2025-02-24T16:05:53.016Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Zagidulin: Anyone else uh with announcements.
[2025-02-24T16:06:09.581Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Zagidulin: All right in that case let us move to our main agenda uh we're pleased to have uh Kate do you have acini and Cari Le muy and anyone else from from their teams uh talk about the.
[2025-02-24T16:06:15.067Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Zagidulin: Uh progress on the various open source uh wallets Kate over to you.
[2025-02-24T16:06:35.974Z]	<Transcriber>	Kate_Giovacchini,_TLN: Thank you Demetri its way with great pleasure that I actually turned the mic over to my colleague uh Mariana Milas who's been the product manager over ASU pocket for some time and has some terrific insights Mariana.
[2025-02-24T16:07:01.770Z]	<Transcriber>	Marianna_Milkis,_ASU_Pocket: Hi everyone nice to be back here um yeah we uh wanted to talk today about the fabulous collaboration that we had with uh DCC and the learner sheality looking at you and Carrie of course um I do have a presentation ready so uh if you want me to go ahead and start sharing I can do that uh what do you think.
[2025-02-24T16:07:04.739Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Zagidulin: Yeah please do uh looking forward to it.
[2025-02-24T16:07:07.262Z]	<Transcriber>	Marianna_Milkis,_ASU_Pocket: All right let me figure this out.
[2025-02-24T16:07:31.941Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Zagidulin: And Mariana I just want to say that it's been such a pleasure uh working with you uh as as a product manager in this space uh as as I think a lot of us uh doing implementation know that it's all that aside from the data models and the protocols it's really the day-to-day Decisions by designers and product managers uh that are going to make all the difference to the actual usability in the field.
[2025-02-24T16:07:54.524Z]	<Transcriber>	Marianna_Milkis,_ASU_Pocket: Well thank you and I I do think that what we um have achieved so far is really such a teamwork such a collaboration and I apologize if there's a screaming baby in the background because uh my baby is sick so he's not too far um okay I'm gonna go ahead and share H uh hopefully I can figure it out I'm not super.
[2025-02-24T16:08:01.058Z]	<Transcriber>	Marianna_Milkis,_ASU_Pocket: Fluent with Team uh with uh me but let's see okay is this looking good.
[2025-02-24T16:08:07.356Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Zagidulin: Yes we can see uh can see your screen go ahead yeah.
[2025-02-24T16:08:11.842Z]	<Transcriber>	Marianna_Milkis,_ASU_Pocket: Where you can see okay fantastic um okay just give me 1 second all right so.
[2025-02-24T16:08:19.303Z]	<Jeff_O_/_HumanOS>	present+
[2025-02-24T16:08:21.085Z]	<Transcriber>	Marianna_Milkis,_ASU_Pocket: So um we wanted to talk about um ASU and MIT DCC collaboration.
[2025-02-24T16:08:28.571Z]	<Transcriber>	Marianna_Milkis,_ASU_Pocket: In creating um ASU pocket and my skills pocket so the 2 wallets that we run out of ASU Enterprise technology.
[2025-02-24T16:08:40.588Z]	<Transcriber>	Marianna_Milkis,_ASU_Pocket: Um and it's been quite a journey um so I will be inviting also Carrie to contribute uh on uh in in udemy to contribute on some of the DCC aspects of this collaboration.
[2025-02-24T16:08:54.161Z]	<Transcriber>	Marianna_Milkis,_ASU_Pocket: Of course we have been working together for a while in sort of consultation capacity and just staying very in very close touch through through tln.
[2025-02-24T16:08:59.541Z]	<Transcriber>	Marianna_Milkis,_ASU_Pocket: Um but uh here's a kind of a quick introduction of what.
[2025-02-24T16:08:59.788Z]	<Transcriber>	Marianna_Milkis,_ASU_Pocket:  each of us.
[2025-02-24T16:09:34.204Z]	<Transcriber>	Marianna_Milkis,_ASU_Pocket: Are doing so as you pocket um it's an edge only verify credential wallet that turns accomplishments in work and learning into professional currency we built it Fuller nurse to store manager chair where fiber credentials and we built it we built this version and this uh kind of final production version um on top of the a learning conial wallets open source code base we also have a second app my skills pocket uh that serves employment Mobility use case they both both run of the same codebase and I'll talk a little bit more about that later.
[2025-02-24T16:09:36.041Z]	<Transcriber>	Marianna_Milkis,_ASU_Pocket: Um and then.
[2025-02-24T16:09:42.246Z]	<Transcriber>	Marianna_Milkis,_ASU_Pocket: Want to talk about I mean obviously everyone here knows this is you but you want to say anything here.
[2025-02-24T16:10:42.025Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Oh is yeah um thank you um hey everybody too yes I'm Carol Leo I'm the director of the DCC and the DCC was founded in 2018 to explore aligning education you see cases with verifiable credentials um uh 1 of us over the years I think Kim Duffy and then me and then Dmitri we we've sort of served as co-chairs in this group to sort of align the work with the group at VC I do to align the work with DCC um so as it says here we are are able to advance the understanding and use of privacy enhanced portable verifiable digital academic credentials I think you all know what that means we're talking about open Badges and verifiable credentials um most importantly uh for this call today we do this through open source technology development um and um what we love to do is is put our our software out there and then make it possible for anybody to to use it without attribution um really just take it and build what you need out of it and um I I'm going to like do the high level.
[2025-02-24T16:10:42.567Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie:  overview but.
[2025-02-24T16:10:53.073Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Actually spent quite a bit of time working with ASU on this so um he can also provide us the details on sort of like you know how this happened and the results of that.
[2025-02-24T16:10:56.563Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Take it from there Rihanna call me whenever you need.
[2025-02-24T16:11:43.989Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	Original wallet specification that DCC developed in 2021 (we've evolved so much since this!): https://digitalcredentials.mit.edu/docs/Learner-Credential-Wallet-Specification-May-2021.pdf
[2025-02-24T16:11:47.146Z]	<Transcriber>	Marianna_Milkis,_ASU_Pocket: Okay okay sounds good um yeah a little bit a very quick little backstory um as you all well some of you may know we have been sort of um working on the wallet for quite some time and we played with various approaches and various Technologies and then at some point we did realize that we do uh need to be really agile and really lightweight we didn't want to get to a point where um even simple um pivots and Bug fixes would take us a long time um so we we wanted to get to the market as fast as possible because we we do all know that it's really fun and this this the space is very exciting it's a big sandbox play playroom that we're all in and we love it but we deeply believe that.
[2025-02-24T16:12:29.790Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	The original LCW was developed with support of the US Dept of Ed. Here's the report the DCC provided on that: https://digitalcredentials.mit.edu/docs/Open%20Source%20Student%20Wallet%20Final%20Report%20-%20Public%20Web%20Version.pdf
[2025-02-24T16:12:37.696Z]	<Transcriber>	Marianna_Milkis,_ASU_Pocket: Most impactful learning uh comes from accelerating to Market we want real we want a real use cases we wanted real feedback uh challenges right and and to really understand um from people for whom we're building um are we building the right thing how are they using it so this collaboration allowed us to do that um I I will get to this right away next um but it also allowed us to really focus on um kind of while we were already we were giving the foundation the technical Foundation from you know with experts like Dmitri really stinking through all the technology and all the all the cases for the technology and how to make that happen we were able to Overlay um.
[2025-02-24T16:12:44.526Z]	<Transcriber>	Marianna_Milkis,_ASU_Pocket: Laser focus on ux and usability and issue specific workflows over that base.
[2025-02-24T16:12:47.848Z]	<Transcriber>	Marianna_Milkis,_ASU_Pocket: That allowed us to create something um.
[2025-02-24T16:12:50.987Z]	<Transcriber>	Marianna_Milkis,_ASU_Pocket: I believe it's pretty special.
[2025-02-24T16:12:59.041Z]	<Transcriber>	Marianna_Milkis,_ASU_Pocket: So this is kind of the timeline um the general tenants of the collaboration um.
[2025-02-24T16:13:06.022Z]	<Transcriber>	Marianna_Milkis,_ASU_Pocket: We worked very closely with Dimitri and his uh in his team um on.
[2025-02-24T16:13:09.528Z]	<Transcriber>	Marianna_Milkis,_ASU_Pocket: The architecture and then um.
[2025-02-24T16:13:14.513Z]	<Transcriber>	Marianna_Milkis,_ASU_Pocket: Code updates um and and and changes uh.
[2025-02-24T16:13:21.524Z]	<Transcriber>	Marianna_Milkis,_ASU_Pocket: And we worked also very closely with with DCC on um.
[2025-02-24T16:13:21.846Z]	<Transcriber>	Marianna_Milkis,_ASU_Pocket:  sort of.
[2025-02-24T16:13:37.047Z]	<Transcriber>	Marianna_Milkis,_ASU_Pocket: Standards issues of figuring out all the edge cases and challenges that um we many of us are working on in in implementation of verify verifiable credentials into the real world.
[2025-02-24T16:14:01.072Z]	<Transcriber>	Marianna_Milkis,_ASU_Pocket: This is a quick timeline of our collaboration as you see it's pretty tight so we started basically from Ground Zero um absolutely nothing um in October 23 where we got the team together both internally ASU team as well as metrie and Kim Duffy was with us for a little while also contributing majorly uh we designed architecture.
[2025-02-24T16:14:13.528Z]	<Transcriber>	Marianna_Milkis,_ASU_Pocket: Figured out how to you know how to leverage open source open source code um with compliance with ASU um standards and requirements for software development.
[2025-02-24T16:14:13.938Z]	<Transcriber>	Marianna_Milkis,_ASU_Pocket:  in January.
[2025-02-24T16:14:20.213Z]	<Jeff_O_/_HumanOS>	present+
[2025-02-24T16:14:25.531Z]	<Transcriber>	Marianna_Milkis,_ASU_Pocket: We forked the code this is a soft Upstream connected Fork um and um also designed the double app support and then February March we um.
[2025-02-24T16:14:57.129Z]	<Transcriber>	Marianna_Milkis,_ASU_Pocket: Did some codebase updates uh also in collaboration with uh GCC uh build pockets ux and functional uh and uh additional functionality and then in April we kicked off uh we already had a live app in both Google Play and apps uh Google Play and um Apple App Stores um and we kicked off a pilot with Ace Hardware um and wrapped it up in late March.
[2025-02-24T16:14:57.809Z]	<Transcriber>	Marianna_Milkis,_ASU_Pocket: As you can.
[2025-02-24T16:14:59.551Z]	<Transcriber>	Marianna_Milkis,_ASU_Pocket: See the timeline was.
[2025-02-24T16:15:08.138Z]	<Transcriber>	Marianna_Milkis,_ASU_Pocket: Really quick um and this is all due to our very tight collaboration and the open source Foundation that DCC provides.
[2025-02-24T16:15:13.524Z]	<Transcriber>	Marianna_Milkis,_ASU_Pocket: A few key wins um that.
[2025-02-24T16:15:59.123Z]	<Transcriber>	Marianna_Milkis,_ASU_Pocket: I want to start with so as I already mentioned it took us 6 months to go from zero to live um with production standards compliant wallet in just 6 months we only have 1 full-time developer supporting this work with of course major contributions from ASU internal devops DCC but I will check here I think I saw your name on the call was the 1 who uh really led the work so that's that's all it took um and then after our testing with uh both ASU students and Ace Hardware Frontline employees who range in age from 17 to 71 um we achieved a 97% customer satisfaction score.
[2025-02-24T16:16:01.497Z]	<Transcriber>	Marianna_Milkis,_ASU_Pocket: So we think it's pretty nice.
[2025-02-24T16:16:16.588Z]	<Transcriber>	Marianna_Milkis,_ASU_Pocket: Um continuing here going in a little bit more detail and I would like to uh well I'll run through this and then if there are any questions I'll shoot those over to abishek because he would be able to.
[2025-02-24T16:16:28.675Z]	<Transcriber>	Marianna_Milkis,_ASU_Pocket: Talk in more depth about this um so some of the ux enhancements that we implemented on top of uh learner credential wallets uh workflows were.
[2025-02-24T16:16:32.528Z]	<Transcriber>	Marianna_Milkis,_ASU_Pocket: Um we made a conscious Choice after.
[2025-02-24T16:16:58.831Z]	<Deb_Everhart_(Credential_Engine)>	present+
[2025-02-24T16:17:09.650Z]	<Transcriber>	Marianna_Milkis,_ASU_Pocket: Quite extensive discussions to drop choppy and switch over to VC API because that provided um massive ux simplification and and and it just allowed us to streamline onboarding massively for folks basically removing I think 3 or 4 uh steps uh which from all our conversations uh with just normal people who use our who have used our wallet over time um is really what's what's needed um we love the tech but people also.
[2025-02-24T16:17:13.537Z]	<Transcriber>	Marianna_Milkis,_ASU_Pocket: I don't see value add of some of the things.
[2025-02-24T16:17:16.021Z]	<Transcriber>	Marianna_Milkis,_ASU_Pocket: We sometimes may take for granted.
[2025-02-24T16:17:30.547Z]	<Chandi_Cumaranatunge>	present+
[2025-02-24T16:17:44.585Z]	<Transcriber>	Marianna_Milkis,_ASU_Pocket: So this was our choice to make it accessible more accessible and easy to use for people we added on boarding workflow that uh sort of well work through walk through that sort of let people uh scroll through some screens and read a little bit of what this is what it does uh what the app does what a verifiable credentials um things like that and then we recently have reworked the share flow um which I'll I'll demo in a little bit.
[2025-02-24T16:17:52.021Z]	<Transcriber>	Marianna_Milkis,_ASU_Pocket: Well not demo I have some screenshots but you can also see it if you install the apps um we.
[2025-02-24T16:17:58.021Z]	<Transcriber>	Marianna_Milkis,_ASU_Pocket: We work the share flow um based on user feedback that it was a little bit.
[2025-02-24T16:18:06.026Z]	<Transcriber>	Marianna_Milkis,_ASU_Pocket: Overly complex uh or just you know had lots of lots of buttons lots of steps um.
[2025-02-24T16:18:10.509Z]	<Transcriber>	Marianna_Milkis,_ASU_Pocket: So now it's quite simplified.
[2025-02-24T16:18:15.097Z]	<Transcriber>	Marianna_Milkis,_ASU_Pocket: In terms of feature additions we uh.
[2025-02-24T16:18:19.510Z]	<Transcriber>	Marianna_Milkis,_ASU_Pocket: Added verifiable presentation and we uh our team.
[2025-02-24T16:18:27.032Z]	<Transcriber>	Marianna_Milkis,_ASU_Pocket: Has worked has contributed back to the open source code base uh to support verified presentation.
[2025-02-24T16:18:45.055Z]	<Transcriber>	Marianna_Milkis,_ASU_Pocket: Added oh this didn't didn't quite uh bullet correctly um we added filtering sorting we are about to release smart resume pipeline Integrations um folks can get ASU credentials directly from The Trusted learner Network.
[2025-02-24T16:18:52.528Z]	<Transcriber>	Marianna_Milkis,_ASU_Pocket: Um and then to run to apps of the same code base we added uh Feature Feature Flags.
[2025-02-24T16:19:14.611Z]	<Transcriber>	Marianna_Milkis,_ASU_Pocket: Uh we now have 2 apps like I said my skills pocket and ASU pocket and uh they have the same design system they have the same codebase and there's just a little switch that helps us switch between the 2 and tag features that we want in 1 or the other so that allows us to really run lean and mean.
[2025-02-24T16:19:26.757Z]	<Transcriber>	Marianna_Milkis,_ASU_Pocket: Uh I will I want to pause here anyone uh I don't know Demetri abishek anything else you want to contribute to kind of Express contribute to this part.
[2025-02-24T16:19:35.237Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Zagidulin: Yeah uh so just want to say a couple couple more comments uh there and first of all I think that this project very much demonstrates the.
[2025-02-24T16:19:56.297Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Zagidulin: The sort of Ideal case uh situation with with obviously always with asterisks and caveats but the success story of uh open source right like the the ability for a team to come in from scratch and ship uh a mobile app let alone 2 mobile apps.
[2025-02-24T16:20:09.888Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Zagidulin: We we're going to return and talk about the 2 apps off of the same codebase which I think is is an interesting use case uh just in a handful of months like 5 months or whatever is is incredible um.
[2025-02-24T16:20:18.856Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Zagidulin: I also wanted to touch on the uh just as a comments with choppy so I think this this points to um.
[2025-02-24T16:20:22.387Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Zagidulin: We we should we should do another session.
[2025-02-24T16:20:32.018Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Zagidulin: Here on VC edu on chappie and getting requests and credentials in and out of wallets.
[2025-02-24T16:20:46.508Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Zagidulin: Because the the situation is constantly evolving and what we've what we've seen is that uh Jackie at the moment is really good for interfacing between applications and web wallets.
[2025-02-24T16:21:08.090Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Zagidulin: In interfacing between applications and mobile wallets there's a lot more challenges just just because uh the affordances that were given by the mobile operating system vendors are are like very narrow so we have to squeeze this whole world of credentials through like 1 or 2 narrow channels essentially everything has to go through.
[2025-02-24T16:21:25.550Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Zagidulin: Uh Universal app links um URLs so uh there's definitely is a good reminder for me to uh come back on another session and talk about uh where we're at with the various wallet apis uh but back over to you.
[2025-02-24T16:21:37.983Z]	<Transcriber>	Marianna_Milkis,_ASU_Pocket: Yeah thank you yeah that was a that and and we are um we're actually in the process of re-enabling choppy and and and exploring how that might work in this case where.
[2025-02-24T16:21:43.470Z]	<Transcriber>	Marianna_Milkis,_ASU_Pocket: Um a mobile only wallet interfaces with the web app.
[2025-02-24T16:21:51.958Z]	<Transcriber>	Marianna_Milkis,_ASU_Pocket: Um we'll be happy to report on that but yeah very interesting topic I think we we get to talk about this in 1 of the future sessions.
[2025-02-24T16:21:57.488Z]	<Transcriber>	Marianna_Milkis,_ASU_Pocket: So yeah so this is an example of um kind of the work chair flow you can also see the branding.
[2025-02-24T16:22:07.972Z]	<Transcriber>	Marianna_Milkis,_ASU_Pocket: Yeah some of the things also here that are sort of new um is the filtering and sorting functionality.
[2025-02-24T16:22:09.143Z]	<David_Ward>	present+
[2025-02-24T16:22:23.021Z]	<Transcriber>	Marianna_Milkis,_ASU_Pocket: And then on the previous slide you did you did see that um there's an option to go connect directly to tln and get all ASU achievements um and then as other institutions on board and to onto the trustee Learning Network we'll have.
[2025-02-24T16:22:29.455Z]	<Transcriber>	Marianna_Milkis,_ASU_Pocket: Some of the challenges and Lessons Learned um.
[2025-02-24T16:22:34.464Z]	<Transcriber>	Marianna_Milkis,_ASU_Pocket: Well happy to report that we did resolve all of these so.
[2025-02-24T16:22:42.481Z]	<Transcriber>	Marianna_Milkis,_ASU_Pocket: Um balancing institutional needs so kind of our pace and our needs with open source roadmap um.
[2025-02-24T16:22:55.469Z]	<Transcriber>	Marianna_Milkis,_ASU_Pocket: Some Upstream dependencies that existed the biggest 1 being the react the bay native update to Expo so that was uh a topic of many conversations of quite a few hours of development.
[2025-02-24T16:22:55.752Z]	<Transcriber>	Marianna_Milkis,_ASU_Pocket:  um and.
[2025-02-24T16:23:01.445Z]	<Transcriber>	Marianna_Milkis,_ASU_Pocket: In interacting and and uh aligning with Demetrius team.
[2025-02-24T16:23:15.403Z]	<Jeff_O_/_HumanOS>	present+
[2025-02-24T16:23:30.008Z]	<Transcriber>	Marianna_Milkis,_ASU_Pocket: Um resource sharing of course um ownership of various tasks uh working with multiple code bases and uh all of the dependencies that existed and then reconciling um issue or Registries um so we did also stood up a very lightweight we see issue on the Verma framework to uh to support my skills pocket so that outside of ASU employment Mobility use case.
[2025-02-24T16:23:36.981Z]	<Transcriber>	Marianna_Milkis,_ASU_Pocket: Um so then uh we had to go back to uh we went back to the to uh.
[2025-02-24T16:23:41.428Z]	<Transcriber>	Marianna_Milkis,_ASU_Pocket: To see his issue registry cross register everything.
[2025-02-24T16:23:43.441Z]	<Transcriber>	Marianna_Milkis,_ASU_Pocket: That was fun.
[2025-02-24T16:23:43.651Z]	<Transcriber>	Marianna_Milkis,_ASU_Pocket:  if you.
[2025-02-24T16:23:50.438Z]	<Transcriber>	Marianna_Milkis,_ASU_Pocket: New uh contributions that Pockets team uh made to verify Plus.
[2025-02-24T16:23:58.471Z]	<Transcriber>	Marianna_Milkis,_ASU_Pocket: So as I already mentioned uh the functionality to display verifiable presentations within the within verify Plus.
[2025-02-24T16:24:03.475Z]	<Transcriber>	Marianna_Milkis,_ASU_Pocket: Um the issue client version upgrade and enhanced for industry display logic.
[2025-02-24T16:24:05.942Z]	<Transcriber>	Marianna_Milkis,_ASU_Pocket: Um I can.
[2025-02-24T16:24:12.470Z]	<Transcriber>	Marianna_Milkis,_ASU_Pocket: Do you want to talk more about like about this briefly because this is your domain.
[2025-02-24T16:25:04.925Z]	<Transcriber>	Marianna_Milkis,_ASU_Pocket: Um yeah okay um and then what's next for us um.
[2025-02-24T16:25:16.435Z]	<Transcriber>	Marianna_Milkis,_ASU_Pocket: Starting to so now um both tail and pocket are in production we're starting to roll it out to Au students.
[2025-02-24T16:25:19.236Z]	<Transcriber>	Marianna_Milkis,_ASU_Pocket:  to get a.
[2025-02-24T16:25:22.398Z]	<Transcriber>	Marianna_Milkis,_ASU_Pocket: Variety of their credentials and carry them through life.
[2025-02-24T16:25:54.025Z]	<Transcriber>	Marianna_Milkis,_ASU_Pocket: During their ASU Learning Journey lifelong Learning Journey and post Learning Journey uh we also are uh kicking off pilot with over a thousand reuse a lot of Community College Learners who are obtaining uh National Retail Federation industry recognized credentials through college and then using them to um find jobs in pipeline as so that's a big thing for us we were also working on some fun AI stuff with AI job recommendations um.
[2025-02-24T16:26:05.150Z]	<Transcriber>	Marianna_Milkis,_ASU_Pocket: That I can talk about later and this is do you want to do you guys want to talk a little bit about what sort of on your in your immediate line.
[2025-02-24T16:26:29.309Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Sure absolutely and um 1 of the things that I think relates to this is that we've been working on this issue a registry project with credential engine um which also we've been talking to ASU about um so and the multiple display of uh issuers in in various Registries has been like a key discussion as part of that work too so there's a lot of overlap there as part of that.
[2025-02-24T16:27:08.133Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Working on at the decency 1 is uh we're pretty heavily involved in a Sprint right now related to the issue of registry project um this has to do with uh de developing a prototype with a recommendations for how issue registry is and for Learning and employment records uh could be standardized and then we are adopting uh the learner credential wallet code and the verifiable uh uh web verifier code so I verify a plus code to use that um and which we will have like others who will be participating in hosting prototype Registries and do verification too so we we together we've all been talking about that a little bit more.
[2025-02-24T16:28:08.037Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Um and then also uh actually something where we're working on right now that will happen I think within a week or so we're pretty close to launching it is um the addition of opening up baked badges in the learner credential wallet um if some of you are familiar with how open badges used to work they were these images right the reason the images were primarily is that the data was embedded into these images and then they could be emailed around and the data could be extracted and and used and they didn't happen very much most open badges just get shared on a web pages and uploading those those quote baked images uh didn't work very well and and platforms because uh you know platforms like LinkedIn and Facebook strip that data out for obvious security reasons so um but we do see that um the credly platform is doing that and so we are making sure that any badges that are incredibly could be imported into while it's like learning a credential wallet and and ASC pocket and others when they're ready to adopt that.
[2025-02-24T16:28:21.746Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Um so we we think this is pretty important to uh sort of see not not to encourage the baking necessarily but to encourage the fact that credentials can be moved out of closed systems into a more more portable systems like wallets.
[2025-02-24T16:28:29.436Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Um dbg anything else or anybody else in the DCC team that's here that would like to add that I haven't mentioned.
[2025-02-24T16:29:06.142Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Zagidulin: Yeah um a lot of I'll add a couple more things so as as the VC field sort of um evolves on the specs mature there's always an ongoing like okay there's a new version of verify the credential spec right we've uh the move to 2.0 so uh we we added support for those uh as new signature methods and and different key types mature uh we we're also adding them adding support for those new signatures to the wallet so that sort of thing and and 1 other exciting um.
[2025-02-24T16:29:08.472Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Zagidulin: Development in uh.
[2025-02-24T16:29:13.964Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Zagidulin: Area of edge wallets is this notion of.
[2025-02-24T16:29:21.709Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Zagidulin: Adding cloud storage to Edge wallets.
[2025-02-24T16:29:24.280Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Zagidulin: 1 of the.
[2025-02-24T16:29:28.448Z]	<Deb_Everhart_(Credential_Engine)>	here's the RISE Up pathway in CTDL https://credentialfinder.org/pathway/8/National_Retail_Federation_Foundation_RISE_Up_Pathway
[2025-02-24T16:29:35.043Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Zagidulin: What what are the major advantages to Edge only mobile wallets and what do we mean by that we mean that credentials and keys and bids.
[2025-02-24T16:29:54.596Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Zagidulin: Are only stored on the mobile phone there's no server component so 1 of the 1 of the reasons that ASU was able to uh deploy this so fast and 1 of the reasons that DCC originally um went with with the edge only design is.
[2025-02-24T16:30:00.059Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Zagidulin: It makes writing the privacy policy really easy.
[2025-02-24T16:30:21.340Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Zagidulin: It makes writing the terms and service and getting it by the legal teams really easy it's like what's your privacy policy we literally don't have any of your data it's all on your phone that's it right so very short so so that's a huge advantage in terms of uh being able to get it out there and start getting feedback from the users the downside of course is.
[2025-02-24T16:30:31.776Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Zagidulin: What about sharing how do you share credentials right the convoluted analogy that I always love to make is with um landline phones and answering machines.
[2025-02-24T16:30:35.152Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Zagidulin: Uh landline phones were great.
[2025-02-24T16:30:45.465Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Zagidulin: Uh infrastructure wise but of course what happens when you're not at at your phone you want to be able to.
[2025-02-24T16:30:53.546Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Zagidulin: You want to have a machine still be able to pick up the phone record the messages so you can come back to it similarly with Edge only wallets.
[2025-02-24T16:30:58.025Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Zagidulin: Your phone your mobile wallet is not always on.
[2025-02-24T16:31:14.041Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Zagidulin: Uh not always accessible and even when it is connected to the internet there's no way to for anybody else who you want to share credential with to reach into your wallet and request something and so on so long story short.
[2025-02-24T16:31:20.512Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Zagidulin: 1 of the things that uh we had to do at DC and and at Su as well.
[2025-02-24T16:31:24.669Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Zagidulin: Was when it came to sharing credentials.
[2025-02-24T16:31:36.288Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Zagidulin: We needed a limited Cloud component only for public only credentials again to keep that privacy policy short.
[2025-02-24T16:31:38.280Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Zagidulin: And and manageable.
[2025-02-24T16:31:46.284Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Zagidulin: We we have this this notion of when you share a credential it gets uploaded to uh a public server.
[2025-02-24T16:31:50.760Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Zagidulin: So that you can just email a link to a component.
[2025-02-24T16:31:57.926Z]	<Kate_Giovacchini,_TLN>	Thanks all, I have to run, I'm sorry ! PLanning an event next week is hard work
[2025-02-24T16:31:59.304Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Zagidulin: Um and and by the way 1 1 of the 1 of the reasons I love being involved in these projects is each 1 of these features.
[2025-02-24T16:32:02.802Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Zagidulin: Needs so much work.
[2025-02-24T16:32:04.790Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Zagidulin: Terms of uh.
[2025-02-24T16:32:25.186Z]	<Sharon_Leu>	present+
[2025-02-24T16:32:28.033Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Zagidulin: Wordsmithing uiux design how do you write the help page right how do you like you get these credentials in front of students and in front of Administrators and there's just worlds of how do we explain this stuff how you know how do we handle errors how do we handle successes how do we show that the verification succeeded.
[2025-02-24T16:33:01.795Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Zagidulin: How do we show the various uh various ways in which verification can fail and still uh sort of get across the the risk factor to the user all all those all those topics very interesting but back to uh the original question of so what what else is on our road map uh so 1 1 exciting projects uh dcc's uh doing right now is exploring further this notion of wallet attached storage of okay we did some some early prototypes of this is how you share a credential.
[2025-02-24T16:33:03.404Z]	<Ildiko_Mazar>	The portability of digital credentials is vital in the context of lifelong learning where people get their credentials from multiple sources and might store in multiple places in parallel and over time. But it's also very important that these DCs are comparable. Do you have a minimum (recommended) data content for the credentials that are stored in the ASU Pocket wallets?
[2025-02-24T16:33:05.090Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Zagidulin: But then can we take it farther can we say hey.
[2025-02-24T16:33:16.681Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Zagidulin: Since user since you already have a wallet that manages cryptographic keys for you what does that mean for storing things in a sharable way in the cloud.
[2025-02-24T16:33:19.081Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Zagidulin:  can we we.
[2025-02-24T16:33:25.294Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Zagidulin: Being able to share public only credential can we add down the line Access Control to it.
[2025-02-24T16:33:35.799Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Zagidulin: Can we uh can we add sync between different wallets or different devices right like it's it's a very rich and interesting area to to explore.
[2025-02-24T16:33:36.158Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Zagidulin:  and and we look.
[2025-02-24T16:33:40.286Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Zagidulin: Forward to um coming back and and.
[2025-02-24T16:33:56.306Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Zagidulin: Explaining our approach uh sharing our findings in it and so on so uh definitely um going to be more to hear from us about what our Dutch storage I think I'll pause there um back to you Gary.
[2025-02-24T16:34:02.392Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Oh no that's great thank you to me I'll actually hand it back over to Mariana.
[2025-02-24T16:34:15.314Z]	<Transcriber>	Marianna_Milkis,_ASU_Pocket: Okay yeah thank you um yeah lots of these things are also on our minds um we do we are planning.
[2025-02-24T16:34:20.370Z]	<Transcriber>	Marianna_Milkis,_ASU_Pocket: A research Sprinter to in regards to.
[2025-02-24T16:34:51.402Z]	<Transcriber>	Marianna_Milkis,_ASU_Pocket: Selective disclosures and 1-to-1 sharings and uh uh all all sorts of things like that so I'm sure we'll talk a lot with you guys about this um and I just yeah I uh I love that we have an opportunity to kind of build step by step build this um this future what this actually looks like of what all these uncertainties look like and then um have immediate almost instant validation.
[2025-02-24T16:34:56.784Z]	<Transcriber>	Marianna_Milkis,_ASU_Pocket: Markets with real users when we make these decisions.
[2025-02-24T16:34:59.820Z]	<Transcriber>	Marianna_Milkis,_ASU_Pocket: That's it Q&A.
[2025-02-24T16:35:01.901Z]	<Dmitri_Zagidulin>	q?
[2025-02-24T16:35:12.787Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Zagidulin: Yeah so let's uh let's get some questions from uh from the audience I see 1 um uh 1 great question that I want to make sure it doesn't uh get lost uh from from ildico in chat though ildico if I don't know if you want to.
[2025-02-24T16:35:18.598Z]	<Ildiko_Mazar>	q+
[2025-02-24T16:35:20.849Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Zagidulin: Uh hop on the Queue to uh to explain it more but I think uh it'll go asking hey what.
[2025-02-24T16:35:22.731Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Zagidulin: Understand the question correctly.
[2025-02-24T16:35:27.350Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Zagidulin: What's the data model here do we have a speck of how.
[2025-02-24T16:35:38.908Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Zagidulin: A credential needs to look in order to be displayed on these wallets uh and the answer is it's obviously evolving uh at the moment we started with open badges version 3.
[2025-02-24T16:35:43.378Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Zagidulin: We start with obvious credentials just because it's uh.
[2025-02-24T16:36:02.491Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Zagidulin: Well known in our corner of the VC field education field and so if it's a verifiable credential sorry if it's a open badges version 3 it'll probably display in the wallet uh of course we don't have support for all of the fields there are many many many fields in.
[2025-02-24T16:36:04.894Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Zagidulin: Um open badges version 3.
[2025-02-24T16:36:16.449Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Zagidulin: Support uh for each 1 uh we will take some time on the road map and and we are hoping that uh advances with uh the render method will be able to take care some of.
[2025-02-24T16:36:18.410Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Zagidulin: Some of that heavy lifting.
[2025-02-24T16:36:25.033Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Zagidulin: So yeah so we're we're starting with uh really basic credentials such as uh open badges.
[2025-02-24T16:36:29.478Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Zagidulin: Going from there but uh please feel free to ask other questions.
[2025-02-24T16:36:31.363Z]	<Dmitri_Zagidulin>	q?
[2025-02-24T16:36:37.044Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q-
[2025-02-24T16:36:41.843Z]	<Transcriber>	Marianna_Milkis,_ASU_Pocket: Yeah also to just quickly add to that um so we did yeah we did launch uh pocket with 2 oh sorry um I have a contributor here um to uh.
[2025-02-24T16:36:43.995Z]	<Ildiko_Mazar>	<3
[2025-02-24T16:36:47.424Z]	<Transcriber>	Marianna_Milkis,_ASU_Pocket: 2 schemas so 1 is obviously uh for.
[2025-02-24T16:37:08.870Z]	<Transcriber>	Marianna_Milkis,_ASU_Pocket: Of credentials and then the other 1 is the employment record to support uh you know to support that so that is interesting Dmitri helped us create the initial schema um and then we based on again real real life feedback and and sort of uh fields and and data that was necessary um.
[2025-02-24T16:37:14.849Z]	<Transcriber>	Marianna_Milkis,_ASU_Pocket: Will be iterating on it and and figuring out how to make that look more aligned to.
[2025-02-24T16:37:26.845Z]	<Transcriber>	Marianna_Milkis,_ASU_Pocket: Um just what the folks perceive to be of value to share and what the the verifiers perceive to be of value to know about the employment so that is evolving and it's really fun.
[2025-02-24T16:37:43.933Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Zagidulin: Oh yeah that's that's a that's a good point I completely forgot uh to mention that aspect that uh there there's some really really exciting developments on in the resume and employment and and HR uh filled in these wallets uh so.
[2025-02-24T16:37:51.962Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Zagidulin: There's there's a support for the employment credential that ASU uh has shipped uh there's a.
[2025-02-24T16:37:53.881Z]	<Nate_Otto>	present+
[2025-02-24T16:37:59.883Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Zagidulin: Couple of uh road map items that uh Phil Long and the T3 Chamber of Commerce Foundation is working on.
[2025-02-24T16:38:08.901Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Zagidulin: And and it's relevant to us in the education field because it's sort of the the complement the.
[2025-02-24T16:38:17.324Z]	<Ildiko_Mazar>	That would be very interesting to keep an eye on - perceived value for the various stakeholders involved (educators, employers)
[2025-02-24T16:38:17.385Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Zagidulin: Functionality uh between education and and employment and how how the 2 interactive.
[2025-02-24T16:38:20.980Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Zagidulin: Yeah so really important uh illico please uh.
[2025-02-24T16:38:55.030Z]	<Ildiko_Mazar>	q-
[2025-02-24T16:38:59.651Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Zagidulin: And you know you're spot on you you touch on 1 of the most important and 1 of the most um.
[2025-02-24T16:39:04.700Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Zagidulin: Often asked questions perceived value to stakeholders.
[2025-02-24T16:39:07.695Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Zagidulin: End of the day we've got we've got these.
[2025-02-24T16:39:13.176Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Zagidulin: Data models we've got these protocols we got these apps user interface all this stuff.
[2025-02-24T16:39:16.687Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Zagidulin: What's the perceived value to the stakeholders what's like.
[2025-02-24T16:39:20.662Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Zagidulin: What does this stuff actually do and.
[2025-02-24T16:39:28.199Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Zagidulin: Uh and that that's an ongoing challenge to us a DCC okay we can talk about that and as well as um.
[2025-02-24T16:39:34.684Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Zagidulin: You uh just want to highlight some of the some of the work uh both Mariana and Brooke who's on the call.
[2025-02-24T16:39:34.981Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Zagidulin:  as well.
[2025-02-24T16:39:44.526Z]	<Ildiko_Mazar>	And how to foster the provision of those values in future DCs to be issued by education providers
[2025-02-24T16:39:53.040Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Zagidulin: Interfacing with various stakeholders on the uh greater Network Greater Community side the the employers the admission desks uh all of those yeah uh eternally interesting topic.
[2025-02-24T16:40:09.594Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Zagidulin: Do you wanna.
[2025-02-24T16:40:10.364Z]	<Transcriber>	Marianna_Milkis,_ASU_Pocket: Yeah I would be more than happy to talk to anyone about the findings that we had from our Ace Hardware pilot there's actually um a few articles that were published um based on that pilot that was very insightful um so happy to talk more about this at some point.
[2025-02-24T16:40:14.904Z]	<Ildiko_Mazar>	Please share URLs, if you can
[2025-02-24T16:40:18.236Z]	<Transcriber>	Marianna_Milkis,_ASU_Pocket: I can find the links yeah there are 1 of them is on my LinkedIn but I I'll grab it yeah.
[2025-02-24T16:40:25.006Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Zagidulin: Not to put you on the spot but do you want to uh share a couple of findings that that that struck you that are the top of your mind.
[2025-02-24T16:40:32.245Z]	<Dmitri_Zagidulin>	q?
[2025-02-24T16:40:37.122Z]	<Transcriber>	Marianna_Milkis,_ASU_Pocket: Let me just give me a minute I'll I'll pull up the deck.
[2025-02-24T16:40:39.995Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Zagidulin: Yeah of course of course yeah of course uh meanwhile other questions uh the folks have.
[2025-02-24T16:40:45.450Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Zagidulin: And so on.
[2025-02-24T16:41:07.245Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Zagidulin: Well uh Mariana is is looking at the decks I just want to comment real quick on 1 of the things that uh we often get asked at DCC is this notion of whether to Rebrand re label a wallet or use an existing.
[2025-02-24T16:41:16.205Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Zagidulin: An existing app just unchanged like learning credential wallet and.
[2025-02-24T16:41:25.336Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	present+
[2025-02-24T16:41:27.245Z]	<Dmitri_Zagidulin>	present+
[2025-02-24T16:41:33.976Z]	<Stuart_Freeman>	present+
[2025-02-24T16:41:36.694Z]	<David_Ward>	present+
[2025-02-24T16:41:41.750Z]	<Beth_-_Gobekli>	present+
[2025-02-24T16:41:42.588Z]	<Sharon_Leu>	present+
[2025-02-24T16:41:47.113Z]	<Jeff_O_/_HumanOS>	present+
[2025-02-24T16:41:47.253Z]	<James_Chartrand>	present+
[2025-02-24T16:41:48.250Z]	<Jack_Durkin>	present+
[2025-02-24T16:41:48.915Z]	<Kristen_Franklin>	present+
[2025-02-24T16:41:50.120Z]	<Chandi_Cumaranatunge>	present+
[2025-02-24T16:41:51.541Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	Think we got cut off by jistsi
[2025-02-24T16:41:53.593Z]	<Amruth_Gouda>	present+
[2025-02-24T16:41:54.420Z]	<Alex_Higuera_(DCC)>	present+
[2025-02-24T16:41:56.052Z]	<Rob_Coyle>	present+
[2025-02-24T16:41:56.740Z]	<Abhishek_Singh>	present+
[2025-02-24T16:42:03.556Z]	<Colin>	present+
[2025-02-24T16:42:03.735Z]	<Ildiko_Mazar>	present+
[2025-02-24T16:42:09.854Z]	<Curtis_Indyke>	present+
[2025-02-24T16:42:11.029Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	LCW at Open Wallet Foundation (still led by DCC): https://github.com/openwallet-foundation-labs/learner-credential-wallet
[2025-02-24T16:42:22.030Z]	<Deb_Everhart_(Credential_Engine)>	present+
[2025-02-24T16:42:50.745Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q+
[2025-02-24T16:46:20.089Z]	<Ildiko_Mazar>	q+
[2025-02-24T16:47:06.708Z]	<Ildiko_Mazar>	+1
[2025-02-24T16:47:23.038Z]	<Dmitri_Zagidulin>	ack kerri
[2025-02-24T16:47:26.301Z]	<Dmitri_Zagidulin>	ack ildiko
[2025-02-24T16:47:38.212Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q-
[2025-02-24T16:48:19.262Z]	<Ildiko_Mazar>	q-
[2025-02-24T16:49:12.216Z]	<Sharon_Leu>	I might have misheard during the presentation, did you mention that you were doing obv3 bc it was familiar - does that mean you are experimenting with other vcs that aren't obv3?
[2025-02-24T16:49:43.639Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	We encourage PRs! https://github.com/openwallet-foundation-labs/learner-credential-wallet
[2025-02-24T16:49:50.373Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	(and issues)
[2025-02-24T16:52:15.893Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	Thank you!
[2025-02-24T16:52:19.264Z]	<Sharon_Leu>	Thanks!
[2025-02-24T16:52:22.515Z]	<Kristen_Franklin>	:+1:
[2025-02-24T16:52:39.186Z]	<Brooke_Lipsitz_(ASU)>	:clap:
[2025-02-24T16:52:45.859Z]	<Beth_-_Gobekli>	Thank you!
[2025-02-24T16:52:45.918Z]	<Ildiko_Mazar>	Thank you, Marianna, Kerri, Abhishek and Dmitri
