Thanks to Our Robot Overlords and Nis Jespersen  and Our Robot Overlords and Our Robot Overlords for scribing this week!

The transcript for the call is now available here:

https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/2024-08-01/

Full text of the discussion follows for W3C archival purposes.
Audio of the meeting is available at the following location:

https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/2024-08-01/audio.ogg

A video recording is also available at:

https://meet.w3c-ccg.org/archives/w3c-ccg-weekly-2024-08-01.mp4

----------------------------------------------------------------
Verifiable Traceability Task Force Transcript for 2024-08-01

Agenda:
  https://www.w3.org/Search/Mail/Public/advanced_search?hdr-1-name=subject&hdr-1-query=%5BAGENDA&period_month=Aug&period_year=2024&index-grp=Public__FULL&index-type=t&type-index=public-credentials&resultsperpage=20&sortby=date
Organizer:
  Orie Steele, Mike Prorock, Mahmoud Alkhraishi
Scribe:
  Our Robot Overlords and Nis Jespersen  and Our Robot Overlords and Our Robot Overlords
Present:
  Mahmoud Alkhraishi, Nis Jespersen , brentz, TallTed // Ted 
  Thibodeau (he/him) (OpenLinkSw.com)

Our Robot Overlords are scribing.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Auto transcriber or do you want to anyone 
  want to subscribe.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Oh you're still not picked up here that's 
  funny okay I'll turn it off.
Nis Jespersen  is scribing.
Nis Jespersen :  Make sure to cover intent to import and 
  workflows
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Yes that, and also testing
Start with testing on interop
Our Robot Overlords are scribing.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Is it died.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Um I don't think it's super urgent I just 
  think this is like that's the only really big that's there's 
  that's 1 of 2 pending items right.
Our Robot Overlords are scribing.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Brent, would you be picking up 529? [scribe 
  assist by Nis Jespersen ]
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Turned on and then I had to turn it off and 
  then.
<nis> And PR 665
<nis> Which has a lot of friction
Nis Jespersen : Brent: I properly forget, will get to it
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  The remaining two is about testing [scribe 
  assist by Nis Jespersen ]
<nis> Discussed with Orie, adding a dry run endpoint
Nis Jespersen : Consensus: let's create a second endpoint, name 
  tbd, no storage
Nis Jespersen : Brent: do we need to test this? We are moving to 
  svip anyway?
Nis Jespersen : Brent: we could also just call it a day
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  For FCGS no testing is required [scribe 
  assist by Nis Jespersen ]
Nis Jespersen :  Beyond looking good it's not like you are 
  interoperable one day and then stop being interoperable [scribe 
  assist by Nis Jespersen ]
Nis Jespersen : Brent: so assumingly we can close 657?
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Yes, I added pending close. [scribe assist 
  by Nis Jespersen ]
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  We should also turn off github actions 
  [scribe assist by Nis Jespersen ]
Nis Jespersen : Brent: and delete section 8
Nis Jespersen : Brent: assign me to 657, I will make a PR to 
  remove it
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  What we the next steps for fcgs? [scribe 
  assist by Nis Jespersen ]
Nis Jespersen : Brent: we show up to a meeting and tell we're 
  ready
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  So we can close out next ween and contact 
  chairs? [scribe assist by Nis Jespersen ]
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Vocab [scribe assist by Nis Jespersen ]
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/832
<nis> Let's talk about workflows
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:   Three separate requirements:  [scribe 
  assist by Nis Jespersen ]
Nis Jespersen :  [Long rant on about supply chains] [scribe 
  assist by Nis Jespersen ]
<brentz> very educational rant
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  I should be able to indicate data about 
  products which I am not intending to import [scribe assist by Nis 
  Jespersen ]
Nis Jespersen : Case: producer of crude oil. Representive of a 
  barrel of oil. I dilute it for movement. Declaration of diluence 
  origin.
<nis> Separation of diluent and crude oil
<nis> Today diluent information is not really filed
<nis> There is no way for a workflow to indicate which diluent is 
  present
<nis> So I want to make another credential concering diluent
<nis> "Don't apply the business process on the other product 
  imported"
<nis> The producer and importer are different parties
<nis> Intent to import could become optional
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Separate the Legal disclaimer from the 
  Import product filtering [scribe assist by Nis Jespersen ]
Nis Jespersen :  Great, but let's stick the the original meaning 
  of intent to import [scribe assist by Nis Jespersen ]
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Fine with that [scribe assist by Nis 
  Jespersen ]
Nis Jespersen :  But it sounds a little naive to expect that 
  people are eager to provide more data than necessary [scribe 
  assist by Nis Jespersen ]
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  That is the situation today. The products 
  get transformed [scribe assist by Nis Jespersen ]
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  It's weird we don't have a credential to 
  focus from a bunch of documents what is intended for import 
  [scribe assist by Nis Jespersen ]
Nis Jespersen :  So, like scrap metal information, but it's the 
  melted coils which are to be imported? [scribe assist by Nis 
  Jespersen ]
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Yes [scribe assist by Nis Jespersen ]
Nis Jespersen :  Have you looked into product passports? [scribe 
  assist by Nis Jespersen ]
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  But there is a privacy aspect. The producer 
  should not be involved [scribe assist by Nis Jespersen ]
Nis Jespersen : Brent: what are the actions?
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  1) Find a good name for this credential, 2) 
  Add schema and example workflow [scribe assist by Nis Jespersen ]
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  I assume I will do it? [scribe assist by Nis 
  Jespersen ]
<nis> I will do it asap, but won't be ale to get to it in August
