[2024-08-01T18:58:18.282Z]	<Mahmoud>	present+
[2024-08-01T18:59:13.300Z]	<Mahmoud>	present+
[2024-08-01T19:01:36.395Z]	<nis>	present+
[2024-08-01T19:02:18.731Z]	<brentz>	present+
[2024-08-01T19:03:53.750Z]	<Transcriber>	scribe+
[2024-08-01T19:03:53.750Z]	<Transcriber>	Meeting: traceability
[2024-08-01T19:04:00.871Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: Auto transcriber or do you want to anyone want to subscribe.
[2024-08-01T19:04:14.415Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: Oh you're still not picked up here that's funny okay I'll turn it off.
[2024-08-01T19:04:16.487Z]	<nis>	scribe+
[2024-08-01T19:04:52.675Z]	<nis>	Nis: make sure to cover intent to import and workflows
[2024-08-01T19:05:01.786Z]	<nis>	Mahmoud: yes that, and also testing
[2024-08-01T19:05:09.451Z]	<nis>	Start with testing on interop
[2024-08-01T19:05:33.826Z]	<Transcriber>	scribe+
[2024-08-01T19:05:33.826Z]	<Transcriber>	Meeting: traceability
[2024-08-01T19:05:36.140Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: Is it died.
[2024-08-01T19:05:44.748Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: Um I don't think it's super urgent I just think this is like that's the only really big that's there's that's 1 of 2 pending items right.
[2024-08-01T19:05:54.930Z]	<Transcriber>	scribe+
[2024-08-01T19:05:54.930Z]	<Transcriber>	Meeting: traceability
[2024-08-01T19:05:59.718Z]	<nis>	Mahmoud: Brent, would you be picking up 529?
[2024-08-01T19:06:00.101Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: Turned on and then I had to turn it off and then.
[2024-08-01T19:06:29.816Z]	<nis>	And PR 665
[2024-08-01T19:06:41.678Z]	<nis>	Which has a lot of friction
[2024-08-01T19:06:53.064Z]	<nis>	Brent: I properly forget, will get to it
[2024-08-01T19:07:30.079Z]	<nis>	Mahmoud: the remaining two is about testing
[2024-08-01T19:07:51.377Z]	<nis>	Discussed with Orie, adding a dry run endpoint
[2024-08-01T19:09:02.677Z]	<nis>	Consensus: let's create a second endpoint, name tbd, no storage
[2024-08-01T19:09:28.452Z]	<nis>	Brent: do we need to test this? We are moving to svip anyway?
[2024-08-01T19:09:59.306Z]	<nis>	Brent: we could also just call it a day
[2024-08-01T19:10:52.312Z]	<nis>	Mahmoud: for FCGS no testing is required
[2024-08-01T19:12:05.912Z]	<nis>	Nis: beyond looking good it's not like you are interoperable one day and then stop being interoperable
[2024-08-01T19:13:34.461Z]	<nis>	Brent: so assumingly we can close 657?
[2024-08-01T19:14:03.013Z]	<nis>	Mahmoud: yes, I added pending close.
[2024-08-01T19:14:22.796Z]	<nis>	Mahmoud: we should also turn off github actions
[2024-08-01T19:14:28.894Z]	<nis>	Brent: and delete section 8
[2024-08-01T19:15:08.100Z]	<nis>	Brent: assign me to 657, I will make a PR to remove it
[2024-08-01T19:15:24.418Z]	<nis>	Mahmoud: what we the next steps for fcgs?
[2024-08-01T19:15:45.722Z]	<nis>	Brent: we show up to a meeting and tell we're ready
[2024-08-01T19:16:14.597Z]	<nis>	Mahmoud: so we can close out next ween and contact chairs?
[2024-08-01T19:16:19.581Z]	<nis>	Mahmoud: Vocab
[2024-08-01T19:16:29.928Z]	<Mahmoud>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/832
[2024-08-01T19:16:34.913Z]	<nis>	Let's talk about workflows
[2024-08-01T19:18:19.135Z]	<nis>	Mahmoud:  three separate requirements: 
1. Legal disclaimer
2. Btw, that disclaimer covers these products. Other products are not intented to be imported.
3. Credentials that are reflected in the workflow
[2024-08-01T19:22:29.170Z]	<TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com)>	present+
[2024-08-01T19:24:44.904Z]	<nis>	Nis: [long rant on about supply chains]
[2024-08-01T19:25:26.075Z]	<brentz>	very educational rant
[2024-08-01T19:25:50.076Z]	<nis>	Mahmoud: I should be able to indicate data about products which I am not intending to import
[2024-08-01T19:26:44.237Z]	<nis>	Case: producer of crude oil. Representive of a barrel of oil. I dilute it for movement. Declaration of diluence origin.
[2024-08-01T19:27:28.444Z]	<nis>	Separation of diluent and crude oil
[2024-08-01T19:28:03.214Z]	<nis>	Today diluent information is not really filed
[2024-08-01T19:28:36.194Z]	<nis>	There is no way for a workflow to indicate which diluent is present
[2024-08-01T19:29:06.231Z]	<nis>	So I want to make another credential concering diluent
[2024-08-01T19:29:27.375Z]	<nis>	"Don't apply the business process on the other product imported"
[2024-08-01T19:30:11.898Z]	<nis>	The producer and importer are different parties
[2024-08-01T19:31:16.791Z]	<nis>	Intent to import could become optional
[2024-08-01T19:35:26.938Z]	<nis>	Mahmoud: separate the Legal disclaimer from the Import product filtering
[2024-08-01T19:35:41.918Z]	<nis>	Nis: great, but let's stick the the original meaning of intent to import
[2024-08-01T19:35:47.559Z]	<nis>	Mahmoud: Fine with that
[2024-08-01T19:36:20.101Z]	<nis>	Nis: but it sounds a little naive to expect that people are eager to provide more data than necessary
[2024-08-01T19:36:43.228Z]	<nis>	Mahmoud: that is the situation today. The products get transformed
[2024-08-01T19:39:27.368Z]	<nis>	Mahmoud: it's weird we don't have a credential to focus from a bunch of documents what is intended for import
[2024-08-01T19:47:00.142Z]	<nis>	Nis: so, like scrap metal information, but it's the melted coils which are to be imported?
[2024-08-01T19:47:04.050Z]	<nis>	Mahmoud: yes
[2024-08-01T19:47:19.081Z]	<nis>	Nis: have you looked into product passports?
[2024-08-01T19:47:55.313Z]	<nis>	Mahmoud: But there is a privacy aspect. The producer should not be involved
[2024-08-01T19:48:03.721Z]	<nis>	Brent: what are the actions?
[2024-08-01T19:48:27.362Z]	<nis>	Mahmoud: 1) find a good name for this credential, 2) Add schema and example workflow
[2024-08-01T19:48:47.909Z]	<nis>	Mahmoud: I assume I will do it?
[2024-08-01T19:50:52.787Z]	<nis>	I will do it asap, but won't be ale to get to it in August
