[2025-01-21T16:56:39.971Z]	<Harrison_Tang>	present+
[2025-01-21T16:57:48.606Z]	<Chandi_Cumaranatunge>	present+
[2025-01-21T16:58:47.590Z]	<Andrea_Vesco_(LINKS)>	present+
[2025-01-21T16:59:03.099Z]	<Will_Abramson>	present+
[2025-01-21T17:00:30.680Z]	<Greg_Bernstein>	present+
[2025-01-21T17:00:43.030Z]	<Greg_Natran>	present+
[2025-01-21T17:00:46.475Z]	<Mahmoud>	present+
[2025-01-21T17:00:51.978Z]	<Susan_Stroud>	present+
[2025-01-21T17:01:03.827Z]	<Guest>	present+
[2025-01-21T17:01:35.002Z]	<econnell>	present+
[2025-01-21T17:02:53.751Z]	<Brandi_Delancey>	present+
[2025-01-21T17:02:54.540Z]	<Transcriber>	scribe+
[2025-01-21T17:02:54.541Z]	<Transcriber>	Meeting: weekly
[2025-01-21T17:02:57.002Z]	<Wendy_Seltzer_(she/her)>	present+
[2025-01-21T17:03:07.744Z]	<Transcriber>	Harrison_Tang: We're good to go.
[2025-01-21T17:03:11.121Z]	<James_Chartrand>	present+
[2025-01-21T17:03:12.998Z]	<julien_fraichot>	present+
[2025-01-21T17:03:13.565Z]	<Transcriber>	Will_Abramson: Just however welcome to today's ccg call Let It Be 3 c um.
[2025-01-21T17:03:13.883Z]	<Transcriber>	Will_Abramson:  today we're.
[2025-01-21T17:03:21.102Z]	<Transcriber>	Will_Abramson: By Andrea is going to be presenting on post-quantum cryptography for verifiable credentials.
[2025-01-21T17:03:23.589Z]	<Joe_Andrieu>	present+
[2025-01-21T17:03:24.074Z]	<Transcriber>	Will_Abramson: Before I get into that I'll just run through.
[2025-01-21T17:03:31.157Z]	<Transcriber>	Will_Abramson: The admin items so first off code code of ethics and professional conduct.
[2025-01-21T17:03:42.146Z]	<Transcriber>	Will_Abramson: Uh just treat everyone with respect let's continue to make these calls and this community a welcoming friendly collaborative environment for us all.
[2025-01-21T17:03:42.460Z]	<Transcriber>	Will_Abramson:  we do.
[2025-01-21T17:03:45.579Z]	<Transcriber>	Will_Abramson: Great job but it's always good to keep that top of mind.
[2025-01-21T17:03:55.544Z]	<Davide_Margaria>	present+
[2025-01-21T17:03:59.112Z]	<Transcriber>	Will_Abramson: Next IP note so anyone is welcome to participate in these calls however all substantive contributions to ccg work items must be members of the ccg with all IPR agreements.
[2025-01-21T17:04:00.878Z]	<Transcriber>	Will_Abramson:  now if you have.
[2025-01-21T17:04:02.061Z]	<econnell>	present+
[2025-01-21T17:04:06.099Z]	<Transcriber>	Will_Abramson: Any questions about that feel free to reach out to any of the chairs I'll be happy to help you in the right direction.
[2025-01-21T17:04:07.473Z]	<Przemek_Praszczalek>	present+
[2025-01-21T17:04:18.140Z]	<Transcriber>	Will_Abramson: Uh brief comments so this these are recorded to and transcribed through jitsi and the minutes and archive is available online.
[2025-01-21T17:04:19.364Z]	<Jennie_M>	present+
[2025-01-21T17:04:20.618Z]	<Transcriber>	Will_Abramson: Let us know if you need help finding them.
[2025-01-21T17:04:30.631Z]	<Transcriber>	Will_Abramson: Uh finally well not finally introductions are reintroductions is anyone like to say hello to the community today who hasn't said hello in a while or is it new.
[2025-01-21T17:04:30.843Z]	<Transcriber>	Will_Abramson:  you're welcome.
[2025-01-21T17:04:34.113Z]	<Transcriber>	Will_Abramson: Welcome to jump off mutant say hi.
[2025-01-21T17:04:34.381Z]	<Transcriber>	Will_Abramson:  good luck.
[2025-01-21T17:04:35.612Z]	<Transcriber>	Will_Abramson: To hear from me.
[2025-01-21T17:04:53.722Z]	<Nicola_Tuveri_(TAU)>	present+
[2025-01-21T17:04:54.103Z]	<Transcriber>	Will_Abramson: Okay not hearing or seeing anyone so I will move on.
[2025-01-21T17:05:01.125Z]	<Transcriber>	Will_Abramson: Um announcements and reminders so does anyone have any announcements or reminders for the community today.
[2025-01-21T17:05:18.185Z]	<Kayode_Ezike>	present+
[2025-01-21T17:05:22.664Z]	<Transcriber>	Will_Abramson: Not seeing anyone which is unusual great we can move straight into the content finally I don't think there are any but does anyone have any progress or updates on ccg work items they'd like to share.
[2025-01-21T17:05:44.636Z]	<Transcriber>	Will_Abramson: So there was 1 item that we wanted to discuss right my mood and Harrison.
[2025-01-21T17:05:50.181Z]	<Transcriber>	Will_Abramson: And that was about the website I don't know if we're ready to share this is fully with the group yet but.
[2025-01-21T17:06:01.091Z]	<Transcriber>	Will_Abramson: As the new chairs we've been looking into like you know like the tool Suite that we use in our site and everything all that that entails.
[2025-01-21T17:06:05.821Z]	<Transcriber>	Will_Abramson: I think we we leak towards.
[2025-01-21T17:06:12.822Z]	<Transcriber>	Will_Abramson: Moving away from my current website towards the CC to towards the w3c website.
[2025-01-21T17:06:17.735Z]	<Will_Abramson>	https://www.w3.org/community/credentials/
[2025-01-21T17:06:22.316Z]	<Transcriber>	Will_Abramson: I I'll just uh we currently have 2 websites right there's this website which is maintained by the w3c.
[2025-01-21T17:06:24.099Z]	<BC>	present+
[2025-01-21T17:06:26.826Z]	<Transcriber>	Will_Abramson: Generated by the w3c maybe we have less control over it.
[2025-01-21T17:06:27.077Z]	<Transcriber>	Will_Abramson:  and then.
[2025-01-21T17:06:29.802Z]	<Transcriber>	Will_Abramson: Has another website which.
[2025-01-21T17:06:31.442Z]	<Vanessa>	present+
[2025-01-21T17:06:37.319Z]	<Transcriber>	Will_Abramson: I think it's here.
[2025-01-21T17:06:40.624Z]	<Mic_Bowman_(intel)>	present+
[2025-01-21T17:06:41.042Z]	<Will_Abramson>	https://w3c-ccg.github.io/
[2025-01-21T17:06:44.825Z]	<Transcriber>	Will_Abramson: Says this website and.
[2025-01-21T17:06:58.903Z]	<Transcriber>	Will_Abramson: Problem when we were working over this website is a problem always with websites right it's like keeping these things up to date maintaining them making sure they're in sync and currently this website that the last website that I just linked the w3c ccg.
[2025-01-21T17:07:03.817Z]	<Transcriber>	Will_Abramson: It's probably beneficial because it's more editable we have more control over it but also.
[2025-01-21T17:07:04.868Z]	<Davide_Margaria>	present+
[2025-01-21T17:07:07.813Z]	<Transcriber>	Will_Abramson: Really out of date I don't know if it's that useful to us so.
[2025-01-21T17:07:15.198Z]	<econnell>	present+
[2025-01-21T17:07:24.100Z]	<Transcriber>	Will_Abramson: The chess tends to we think we should look towards some setting this website in favor of trying to maintain just 1 website under the w3c seeing if we can get that website more up to date with like active work items stuff like that.
[2025-01-21T17:07:25.822Z]	<Kaliya_Identity_Woman>	present+
[2025-01-21T17:07:28.529Z]	<Transcriber>	Will_Abramson: So if anyone has any comments or.
[2025-01-21T17:07:28.712Z]	<Transcriber>	Will_Abramson:  questions or.
[2025-01-21T17:07:31.592Z]	<Transcriber>	Will_Abramson: Concerns maybe jump on the queue.
[2025-01-21T17:07:32.924Z]	<Harrison_Tang>	q+
[2025-01-21T17:07:33.549Z]	<Transcriber>	Will_Abramson: Our initial thoughts.
[2025-01-21T17:07:38.244Z]	<Will_Abramson>	q?
[2025-01-21T17:07:46.351Z]	<Transcriber>	Harrison_Tang: Yeah just just want to ask that we also have the GitHub so the The Proposal is to uh deprecate the github.io not the GitHub uh.
[2025-01-21T17:07:57.872Z]	<Transcriber>	Harrison_Tang: Website so uh after we do that then we'll consolidate all the content to the w3c Community website and and also the GitHub.
[2025-01-21T17:08:00.192Z]	<Mahmoud>	to make it clear we would like to keep this website: https://www.w3.org/community/credentials/

We want to deprecate:
https://w3c-ccg.github.io/
[2025-01-21T17:08:09.212Z]	<Phillip_Long>	present+
[2025-01-21T17:08:18.299Z]	<Transcriber>	Will_Abramson: Yeah thanks mhm yeah so we're still exploring this because obviously we we need to figure out exactly how easy it would be to for us to update this uh credentials website under the w3.org domain.
[2025-01-21T17:08:21.779Z]	<Transcriber>	Will_Abramson: But we feel like that's better passports.
[2025-01-21T17:08:25.017Z]	<Transcriber>	Will_Abramson:  I just want.
[2025-01-21T17:08:28.312Z]	<Matthieu_C.>	present+
[2025-01-21T17:08:31.779Z]	<Transcriber>	Will_Abramson: Like people know where we're where we're thinking of going once we have a clearer idea or probably come back to the group.
[2025-01-21T17:08:35.534Z]	<Transcriber>	Will_Abramson: Final calls for the announcements or updates before we hand over to Andrea.
[2025-01-21T17:08:43.344Z]	<Harrison_Tang>	q-
[2025-01-21T17:09:03.023Z]	<Transcriber>	Kaliya_Identity_Woman: Hi um the usual updates for me just so folks haven't been around they hear them um we have the dead on conference Africa happening in Cape Town February 18 to 20th we have dice ecosystems which is just 2 days focused on and really for anybody in Europe building.
[2025-01-21T17:09:10.975Z]	<Transcriber>	Kaliya_Identity_Woman: He actively building ecosystems to kind of weave them together and share breath practices around that that's March.
[2025-01-21T17:09:16.953Z]	<Transcriber>	Kaliya_Identity_Woman: And 5th in Zurich iiw number 40 in Mountain View.
[2025-01-21T17:09:19.467Z]	<Transcriber>	Kaliya_Identity_Woman: Saying um April.
[2025-01-21T17:09:25.996Z]	<Transcriber>	Kaliya_Identity_Woman: And then if you're doing any Fetter verse.
[2025-01-21T17:09:34.496Z]	<Transcriber>	Kaliya_Identity_Woman: Distributed social network staff Johannes and I have um The fetty Forum April 1 and 2.
[2025-01-21T17:09:38.222Z]	<Transcriber>	Will_Abramson: Great thanks Kia.
[2025-01-21T17:09:39.091Z]	<Harrison_Tang>	q+
[2025-01-21T17:09:42.311Z]	<econnell>	present+
[2025-01-21T17:09:43.298Z]	<Transcriber>	Will_Abramson: Okay not seeing anyone else oh Harrison did you.
[2025-01-21T17:09:50.594Z]	<Matthieu_CollÃ©>	present+
[2025-01-21T17:10:25.345Z]	<Joe_Andrieu>	GAN is now Ayra
[2025-01-21T17:10:25.540Z]	<Phillip_Long>	Arya is the new name (from GAN)
[2025-01-21T17:10:34.024Z]	<Transcriber>	Harrison_Tang: Yeah I just want to quickly do a preview of uh what's coming so uh next week I will have a Hadrian uh to talk about solid uh he came from uh Europe uh in romp and then also work on the solid with team burnsley so we'll talk about solid you'll be more of a Q&A format supposed to do a presentation um so so that's what's coming to uh next week and then the week after that we'll have uh Drummond to talk about global acceptance Network I think uh they changed the name recently but I forgot what that new name is and then the the week after that we'll have the my Pro Rock uh to our former culture to talk about the trade verify the and then lastly uh just want to uh quickly note that we'll have another uh open forum and work item updates on March 11th so we'll.
[2025-01-21T17:10:36.148Z]	<Transcriber>	Harrison_Tang: To the different.
[2025-01-21T17:10:50.362Z]	<Transcriber>	Harrison_Tang: Basically uh work item uh leaders uh in about 2 3 weeks uh to kind of uh uh get all the updates in uh so that we can um have those conversations on March 11th.
[2025-01-21T17:10:53.719Z]	<Transcriber>	Will_Abramson: Great thanks Harrison.
[2025-01-21T17:10:56.252Z]	<Transcriber>	Will_Abramson: With that uh over to you Andrea.
[2025-01-21T17:11:07.619Z]	<Harrison_Tang>	q-
[2025-01-21T17:11:14.958Z]	<Harrison_Tang>	present+
[2025-01-21T17:11:16.127Z]	<Will_Abramson>	present+
[2025-01-21T17:11:17.864Z]	<Nicola_Tuveri_(TAU)>	:+1:
[2025-01-21T17:11:21.527Z]	<Phillip_Long>	Joe's spelling is correct (LOL) Ayra
[2025-01-21T17:11:27.453Z]	<Transcriber>	scribe+
[2025-01-21T17:11:27.453Z]	<Transcriber>	Meeting: weekly
[2025-01-21T17:11:36.954Z]	<Harrison_Tang>	Topic: <Post-Quantum Cryptography in VC - PQ and PQ/T Approaches>
[2025-01-21T17:11:40.616Z]	<Dmitri_Zagidulin>	present+
[2025-01-21T17:13:01.347Z]	<Susan_Stroud>	present+
[2025-01-21T17:14:44.171Z]	<Guest>	present+
[2025-01-21T17:15:08.006Z]	<Davide_Margaria>	present+
[2025-01-21T17:17:00.619Z]	<W>	present+
[2025-01-21T17:19:42.392Z]	<Alex_Higuera_(DCC)>	present+
[2025-01-21T17:20:44.658Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	present+
[2025-01-21T17:38:45.141Z]	<econnell>	present+
[2025-01-21T17:43:30.601Z]	<Harrison_Tang>	q+
[2025-01-21T17:43:38.896Z]	<Transcriber>	Will_Abramson: Great thanks a lot thanks for that our detailed presentation Harrison see you on the queue.
[2025-01-21T17:43:52.843Z]	<Transcriber>	Harrison_Tang: Thank you thank you this is a great presentation so first of all if you don't mind me you share this uh uh your presentation with the public list or you can just uh email it to me and I can share on your behalf.
[2025-01-21T17:44:04.833Z]	<Transcriber>	Harrison_Tang: Great um now uh just a clarification question so uh when we are doing uh the the hybrid approach with post-quantum plus traditional um.
[2025-01-21T17:44:19.358Z]	<Transcriber>	Harrison_Tang: The the the is the uh performance basically linear in other words is the let's say the generation speed uh of the hybrid approach is it just the generation speed for the.
[2025-01-21T17:44:19.773Z]	<Transcriber>	Harrison_Tang:  uh post.
[2025-01-21T17:44:45.807Z]	<Will_Abramson>	present+
[2025-01-21T17:44:46.545Z]	<Alex_Higuera_(DCC)>	present+
[2025-01-21T17:44:46.827Z]	<Dmitri_Zagidulin>	present+
[2025-01-21T17:44:49.808Z]	<Greg_Bernstein>	present+
[2025-01-21T17:44:50.017Z]	<Jennie_M>	present+
[2025-01-21T17:44:50.328Z]	<Harrison_Tang>	present+
[2025-01-21T17:44:51.542Z]	<julien_fraichot>	present+
[2025-01-21T17:44:52.830Z]	<Joe_Andrieu>	present+
[2025-01-21T17:44:55.820Z]	<Mahmoud>	present+
[2025-01-21T17:44:56.875Z]	<Phillip_Long>	present+
[2025-01-21T17:44:57.479Z]	<Susan_Stroud>	present+
[2025-01-21T17:45:03.029Z]	<econnell>	present+
[2025-01-21T17:45:07.016Z]	<Vanessa>	present+
[2025-01-21T17:45:07.643Z]	<James_Chartrand>	present+
[2025-01-21T17:45:10.014Z]	<W>	present+
[2025-01-21T17:45:12.296Z]	<Nicola_Tuveri_(TAU)>	present+
[2025-01-21T17:45:21.229Z]	<Davide_Margaria>	present+
[2025-01-21T17:45:23.372Z]	<Transcriber>	scribe+
[2025-01-21T17:45:23.372Z]	<Transcriber>	Meeting: weekly
[2025-01-21T17:46:50.294Z]	<Davide_Margaria>	present+
[2025-01-21T17:46:53.027Z]	<Transcriber>	Harrison_Tang: Got it so just to clarify the does the hybrid approach performance basically is the sum of the post-quantum performance plus the traditional cryptography performance is that is that basically linear.
[2025-01-21T17:46:55.460Z]	<Transcriber>	Harrison_Tang: Okay got it thank you.
[2025-01-21T17:47:05.154Z]	<Kaliya_Identity_Woman>	present+
[2025-01-21T17:47:33.951Z]	<Phillip_Long>	present+
[2025-01-21T17:47:34.398Z]	<Transcriber>	Harrison_Tang: Got it thank you.
[2025-01-21T17:47:39.039Z]	<Transcriber>	Will_Abramson: Great thanks uh Greg the next.
[2025-01-21T17:47:41.534Z]	<Harrison_Tang>	q-
[2025-01-21T17:47:50.414Z]	<Transcriber>	Greg_Bernstein: I was going to ask you're using JWT but it doesn't seem like there's anything that requires JWT here you could just directly use.
[2025-01-21T17:47:50.597Z]	<Transcriber>	Greg_Bernstein:  H the.
[2025-01-21T17:48:02.588Z]	<Transcriber>	Greg_Bernstein: Data Integrity approach for uh doing these and add a crypto Suite like we've done with eddsa and ecdsa and.
[2025-01-21T17:48:07.921Z]	<Transcriber>	Greg_Bernstein: Type stuff is there any particular reason to use JWT here.
[2025-01-21T17:48:10.367Z]	<Will_Abramson>	q+
[2025-01-21T17:48:25.235Z]	<Harrison_Tang>	ack greg
[2025-01-21T17:48:37.803Z]	<Will_Abramson>	https://w3c-ccg.github.io/di-quantum-safe/
[2025-01-21T17:48:39.258Z]	<Transcriber>	Will_Abramson: Great thanks Greg yeah I put myself on the Queue to just follow up on what Greg said I don't know if you're aware Andrea but there is a.
[2025-01-21T17:48:47.513Z]	<Transcriber>	Will_Abramson: Signature Suite dacian te crypto Suite being developed so I believe what the status is it's kind of like.
[2025-01-21T17:48:54.490Z]	<Transcriber>	Will_Abramson: Stay the same for a while but it looks that a day-to-day suite for the mlds a algorithm.
[2025-01-21T17:48:56.410Z]	<Transcriber>	Will_Abramson: So you know maybe.
[2025-01-21T17:48:56.610Z]	<Transcriber>	Will_Abramson:  you could.
[2025-01-21T17:49:07.944Z]	<Transcriber>	Will_Abramson: Your approach into here is a different type because it's all experimental right at least at the moment maybe at some point it would move out of this crypto Suite into his own space.
[2025-01-21T17:49:11.763Z]	<Will_Abramson>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/di-quantum-safe
[2025-01-21T17:49:12.461Z]	<Transcriber>	Will_Abramson: Uh so I dropped the link I dropped the repo as well if you're interested.
[2025-01-21T17:49:19.943Z]	<Transcriber>	Will_Abramson: Yeah because I agree it would be great to see it in Dayton Integrity as well.
[2025-01-21T17:50:03.068Z]	<Will_Abramson>	present+
[2025-01-21T17:50:03.936Z]	<Dmitri_Zagidulin>	present+
[2025-01-21T17:50:04.043Z]	<Harrison_Tang>	present+
[2025-01-21T17:50:05.006Z]	<Jennie_M>	present+
[2025-01-21T17:50:05.923Z]	<julien_fraichot>	present+
[2025-01-21T17:50:06.123Z]	<Alex_Higuera_(DCC)>	present+
[2025-01-21T17:50:08.055Z]	<Nicola_Tuveri_(TAU)>	present+
[2025-01-21T17:50:11.973Z]	<Phillip_Long>	present+
[2025-01-21T17:50:13.714Z]	<Greg_Bernstein>	present+
[2025-01-21T17:50:14.957Z]	<Davide_Margaria>	present+
[2025-01-21T17:50:17.867Z]	<Vanessa>	present+
[2025-01-21T17:50:19.243Z]	<James_Chartrand>	present+
[2025-01-21T17:50:25.752Z]	<W>	present+
[2025-01-21T17:50:28.582Z]	<econnell>	present+
[2025-01-21T17:50:28.959Z]	<Mahmoud>	present+
[2025-01-21T17:50:29.091Z]	<Susan_Stroud>	present+
[2025-01-21T17:50:51.308Z]	<Kaliya_Identity_Woman>	present+
[2025-01-21T17:51:15.797Z]	<Joe_Andrieu>	present+
[2025-01-21T17:52:32.016Z]	<Greg_Bernstein>	I've been looking at this work: [1] S. Argo, T. GÃ¼neysu, C. Jeudy, G. Land, A. Roux-Langlois, and O. Sanders, âPractical Post-Quantum Signatures for Privacy,â 2024, 2024/131. Accessed: Oct. 10, 2024. [Online]. Available: heprintttps://eprint.iacr.org/2024/131
[2025-01-21T17:53:07.359Z]	<Will_Abramson>	q-
[2025-01-21T17:55:35.444Z]	<Andrea_Vesco_(LINKS)>	CyberLINKS github
[2025-01-21T17:55:42.757Z]	<Andrea_Vesco_(LINKS)>	qubip.eu
[2025-01-21T17:55:56.797Z]	<Andrea_Vesco_(LINKS)>	andrea.vesco@linksfoundation.com
[2025-01-21T17:56:06.534Z]	<econnell>	present+
[2025-01-21T17:56:09.106Z]	<Harrison_Tang>	thanks a lot, Andrea!
