[Tue 12:06:53] <manu>	Agenda: https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-credentials/2017Jul/0040.html
[Tue 12:06:57] *	rgrant is area code 312
[Tue 12:07:47] <manu>	voip: 2d2 is rgrant
[Tue 12:07:47] <voip-vctf>	Associated rgrant with SIP/69.65.34.216-000002d2.
[Tue 12:09:31] <rgrant>	http://irc.w3.org/?channels=vctf
[Tue 12:09:46] *	Lionel (~Lionel@public.cloak) has joined #vctf
[Tue 12:09:55] <manu>	scribe: Lionel
[Tue 12:09:58] <Lionel>	ChristopherA: First up - Review agenda, any changes?
[Tue 12:09:59] <Lionel>	No changes.
[Tue 12:09:58] <Lionel>	Topic: Action Items
[Tue 12:09:59] <Lionel>	ChristopherA: moving documents and resources
[Tue 12:10:00] <Lionel>	ChristopherA: Updating credentials mission statement
[Tue 12:10:00] <Lionel>	ChristopherA: Draft action items
[Tue 12:10:06] *	dlongley "emote" if you don't want it in the minutes ... (/me foo)
[Tue 12:12:12] <Lionel>	ChristopherA: We needed to choose a CG name, we've done that.
[Tue 12:12:29] <Lionel>	ChristopherA: We need a new mission statement.
[Tue 12:12:35] *	squarfed (~squarfed@public.cloak) has joined #vctf
[Tue 12:12:35] <voip-vctf>	16789329012 [SIP/69.65.34.216-000002d3] has joined the conference.
[Tue 12:12:38] <drummond>	What is the new name?
[Tue 12:12:40] <Lionel>	ChristopherA submitted new mission statement for review.
[Tue 12:12:49] <burn>	voip: 2d3 is Dan_Burnett
[Tue 12:12:49] <voip-vctf>	Associated Dan_Burnett with SIP/69.65.34.216-000002d3.
[Tue 12:13:11] <kimhd>	Mission statement, current draft: https://goo.gl/sNs2vl
[Tue 12:13:11] <dlongley>	drummond, no new name; the name will remain "The Credentials Community Group"
[Tue 12:09:59] <Lionel>	Topic: Introductions and Re-introductions
[Tue 12:10:29] <Lionel>	No one new for introductions, on to re-introductions.
[Tue 12:11:07] <Lionel>	lehn: Hi, I'm Dave Lehn from Digital Bazaar. I am involved in doing a number of implementations around Verifiable Claims, Linked Data Signatures, Web Payments, and the related cryptography suites. I've been involved in this work for over 7 years and will continue to support the group by doing implementations for the technologies incubated here.
[Tue 12:13:26] <manu>	Topic: Update on Community Group Name
[Tue 12:13:34] <Lionel>	ChristopherA: Regarding name change: after discussion, decided not to change the name.
[Tue 12:13:37] <drummond>	Okay, I just didn't know that the "new name" was.
[Tue 12:13:41] <voip-vctf>	Unknown [SIP/69.65.34.216-000002d4] has joined the conference.
[Tue 12:14:01] <Lionel>	manu: Fundamentally, this group started as the Credentials Community Group and only changed to Verifiable Claims after pressure from some larger organizations at W3C. In hindsight, it was a mistake to do this as "Verifiable Claims" has led to a number of confusing discussions related to what we're really doing here - which is creating credentialing technology. It was asserted by the "security community" that "credentials" were "usernames, passwords, and facebook logins" and didn't cover things like digital drivers licenses, educational certificates, and other concepts. Now that the group has more cryptographers, security advocates, and privacy advocates, it is clear that the group would prefer to keep the "credential" wording and thus we will have to circle back around to the organizations objecting to let them know that we've explored this topic in depth and have come to the conclusion that the group is really involved in the creation of credential technology.
[Tue 12:14:03] <squarfed>	voip: 2d4 is squarfed
[Tue 12:14:04] <voip-vctf>	Associated squarfed with SIP/69.65.34.216-000002d4.
[Tue 12:14:21] <drummond>	I'm good with "Credentials Community Group".
[Tue 12:14:54] <Lionel>	manu: Currently there are security, privacy experienced people in the group now so they can reflect the security-understanding of the word 'credential'
[Tue 12:15:22] <Lionel>	manu: This community advocates for claiming the word for its broad meaning outside of the limited 'credential = username/pass'
[Tue 12:15:44] <Lionel>	manu: This community holds the word to refer to credentials as commonly understood in the wider civic context.
[Tue 12:16:04] *	manu Lionel - make sure to put the person's name in front... so - manu: said so and so
[Tue 12:16:15] *	manu Lionel otherwise, we don't know who is speaking.... (in the minutes)
[Tue 12:16:52] <Lionel>	ChristopherA: the community could be easier to discover
[Tue 12:17:01] <Lionel>	manu: will take care of the redirects
[Tue 12:17:10] *	manu Lionel - perfect! thank you!
[Tue 12:17:19] <rgrant>	q+ moving or not, a simple top-level aggreagator page seems appropriate
[Tue 12:17:19] <voip-vctf>	rgrant has been added to the queue: rgrant
[Tue 12:17:44] <Lionel>	ChristopherA: the document availability challenge is made more difficult since the group has historically used many different docs in different locations
[Tue 12:18:06] <manu>	q+ to notify folks of the plan, ask questions about IRC channel, telecon bridge, etc...
[Tue 12:18:06] <voip-vctf>	manu has been added to the queue: rgrant, manu
[Tue 12:18:23] *	burn lionel, if you want a side comment that is not to be minuted, just precede with /me -- that's how the comments from Manu were generated
[Tue 12:18:32] *	Lionel - who just spoke
[Tue 12:18:37] *	manu that was KimHD
[Tue 12:19:00] *	Lionel thanks, Kim what was your main point for the minutes?
[Tue 12:19:14] <Lionel>	ChristopherA: need to discuss more about the signature standards
[Tue 12:19:30] <manu>	q?
[Tue 12:19:30] <ChristopherA>	q?
[Tue 12:19:30] <voip-vctf>	The current speaker queue is: rgrant, manu
[Tue 12:19:30] <voip-vctf>	The current speaker queue is: rgrant, manu
[Tue 12:19:33] <rgrant>	q+ maybe github
[Tue 12:19:33] <voip-vctf>	rgrant has been added to the queue: rgrant, manu, rgrant
[Tue 12:19:44] <ChristopherA>	ack rgrant
[Tue 12:19:44] <voip-vctf>	rgrant has the floor (moving or not, a simple top-level aggreagator page seems appropriate).
[Tue 12:19:54] <kimhd>	kimhd has an action item to sort out Credentials CG landing page to make it clearer where specs are, etc
[Tue 12:20:00] <Lionel>	rgrant: suggests a github for the documents
[Tue 12:20:02] <kimhd>	q+
[Tue 12:20:02] <voip-vctf>	kimhd has been added to the queue: manu, rgrant, kimhd
[Tue 12:20:07] <ChristopherA>	ack manu
[Tue 12:20:08] <voip-vctf>	manu has the floor (to notify folks of the plan, ask questions about IRC channel, telecon bridge, etc...).
[Tue 12:20:11] <manu>	https://w3c-ccg.github.io/
[Tue 12:20:20] <rgrant>	:)
[Tue 12:20:23] <drummond>	Hooray!
[Tue 12:20:32] <Lionel>	Manu instantly grants rgant's request!
[Tue 12:20:38] *	Lionel magic!
[Tue 12:20:49] <JoeAndrieu>	+1 for Manu's magic trick
[Tue 12:20:50] <manu>	We also have this site for the signature stuff: https://w3c-dvcg.github.io/
[Tue 12:21:15] *	burn so now that we finally (again) agree on "credentials", does the VCWG need to become the CWG in its next life? :)
[Tue 12:21:17] <kimhd>	q-
[Tue 12:21:17] <voip-vctf>	kimhd has been removed from the queue: rgrant
[Tue 12:21:23] <Lionel>	manu: DVCG has docs in other places... manu discusses need to aggregate the docs
[Tue 12:21:30] <rgrant>	q-
[Tue 12:21:30] <voip-vctf>	rgrant has been removed from the queue:
[Tue 12:21:43] <drummond>	+1 for bringing all the docs and pointers back into one place - https://w3c-ccg.github.io/
[Tue 12:21:51] <Lionel>	manu: what do we do after we aggregate the docs?
[Tue 12:22:02] <JoeAndrieu>	+1 to move IRC channel
[Tue 12:22:03] <Lionel>	manu: proposed: rfc should no longer be #vctf
[Tue 12:22:05] <ChristopherA>	acronym ccg
[Tue 12:22:13] <Lionel>	manu: propose to go to #ccg
[Tue 12:22:17] <drummond>	+1 to "ccg" IRC channel
[Tue 12:22:23] <Lionel>	manu: #vctf will have a redirect
[Tue 12:22:32] <ChristopherA>	q+
[Tue 12:22:32] <voip-vctf>	ChristopherA has been added to the queue: ChristopherA
[Tue 12:22:36] <ChristopherA>	q?
[Tue 12:22:36] <voip-vctf>	The current speaker queue is: ChristopherA
[Tue 12:22:40] <cwebber2>	+1
[Tue 12:22:41] <ChristopherA>	+1
[Tue 12:22:42] <kimhd>	q+
[Tue 12:22:42] <voip-vctf>	kimhd has been added to the queue: ChristopherA, kimhd
[Tue 12:22:46] <Lionel>	manu: Credentials COmmunity Group (CCG) has been accepted, so that name will be applied to chat and anywhere appropriate
[Tue 12:22:46] <drummond>	+1 to doing the blanket change that Manu proposes
[Tue 12:22:49] <ChristopherA>	ack ChristopherA
[Tue 12:22:49] <voip-vctf>	ChristopherA has the floor.
[Tue 12:22:49] <rgrant>	+1
[Tue 12:22:51] *	Lionel +1
[Tue 12:22:52] <ChristopherA>	https://www.w3.org/community/credentials/
[Tue 12:22:54] <JoeAndrieu>	+1
[Tue 12:22:55] <squarfed>	+1
[Tue 12:22:58] <dlongley>	+1 to #ccg for IRC channel and ccg for telecon bridge
[Tue 12:23:07] <ChristopherA>	ack kimhd
[Tue 12:23:07] <voip-vctf>	kimhd has the floor.
[Tue 12:23:13] <Lionel>	ChristopherA: What to do about the former URL?
[Tue 12:23:39] <ChristopherA>	I'd love to see it have less, and move stuff there off.
[Tue 12:23:42] <Lionel>	Kim: The W3C site poses some challenges regarding the control of the content, so I see it as a launching point for the credentials page
[Tue 12:23:55] <Lionel>	Kim: Let's see it as an entry point
[Tue 12:24:04] <Lionel>	Kim: Consider using the W3C wordpress blog
[Tue 12:24:15] <Lionel>	Kim: but keep the bulk of the updates on Manu's site
[Tue 12:24:28] <ChristopherA>	manu, what about old minutes, old agenda, etc.
[Tue 12:25:14] <Lionel>	Kim: After mission statement is drafted, send a notification regarding the CCG name to the working group people who raised concerns about our name.
[Tue 12:25:21] <manu>	q+ to may be respond to Kim?
[Tue 12:25:21] <voip-vctf>	manu has been added to the queue: manu
[Tue 12:25:32] <ChristopherA>	ack manu
[Tue 12:25:32] <voip-vctf>	manu has the floor (to may be respond to Kim?).
[Tue 12:26:14] <Lionel>	manu: Order of operations (1) define mission statement (2) contact W3C systems team to update the mission statement on the W3C credentials community page (3) then notify web payments and privacy interest group
[Tue 12:26:22] <Lionel>	Kim: ok
[Tue 12:26:33] <manu>	ack manu
[Tue 12:26:33] <voip-vctf>	manu isn't on the speaker queue.
[Tue 12:26:46] <Lionel>	manu: ok
[Tue 12:26:47] <kimhd>	q?
[Tue 12:26:47] <voip-vctf>	The speaker queue is empty.
[Tue 12:26:56] <manu>	q+ to mention how to deal w/ history vctf/ccg, etc.
[Tue 12:26:56] <voip-vctf>	manu has been added to the queue: manu
[Tue 12:27:03] <ChristopherA>	ack manu
[Tue 12:27:03] <voip-vctf>	manu has the floor (to mention how to deal w/ history vctf/ccg, etc.).
[Tue 12:27:13] <Lionel>	ChristopherA: differentiate between CLAIMS and CREDENTIAL GROUP
[Tue 12:27:31] <Lionel>	Manu: Plan to split/fork the VCTF repo for Preservation of audio records
[Tue 12:27:35] *	agropper_ (~agropper@public.cloak) has joined #vctf
[Tue 12:27:56] <Lionel>	Manu: will maintain transparency back to 2015 into the changes we've been through
[Tue 12:28:14] <Lionel>	Manu: This fork will also have redirects as needed to enable good accessibility
[Tue 12:28:32] <kimhd>	sounds good to me
[Tue 12:28:33] <ChristopherA>	ack manu
[Tue 12:28:33] <voip-vctf>	manu isn't on the speaker queue.
[Tue 12:28:37] *	dlongley no audio from Christopher
[Tue 12:28:51] <voip-vctf>	16179245273 [SIP/69.65.34.216-000002d5] has joined the conference.
[Tue 12:28:58] *	dlongley working now :)
[Tue 12:29:07] <Lionel>	ChristopherA: Kudos to Manu for all the hard work and stewardship.
[Tue 12:29:15] <ChristopherA>	https://docs.google.com/document/d/1kxm6yGnGAVgNTLMYft_cz2zW3c1AE8uSCy4i5A6OhG8/edit?usp=sharing
[Tue 12:29:20] *	manu no problem - thanks to everyone else that's participating and making it happen, too! :)
[Tue 12:29:29] <manu>	No problem - thanks to everyone else that's participating and making it happen, too! :)
[Tue 12:29:34] <Lionel>	Topic: Revising the Mission Statement
[Tue 12:30:00] <voip-vctf>	17736142279 [SIP/69.65.34.216-000002d6] has joined the conference.
[Tue 12:30:33] <ChristopherA>	The purpose of the Credentials Community Group is to discuss, research, document, prototype, and test credential storage and exchange systems for the Iinternet, to allow for the standardized and interoperable creation of credentials and presentation of their proofs. It focuses on a credential as a verifiable assertion by an authority about a subject, entity, or person, and seeks solutions for both centralized authorities and self-sovereign
[Tue 12:30:33] <ChristopherA>	identities. Its output includes [we do this how? write reports? write requirements?]
[Tue 12:30:35] *	agropper has quit (Ping timeout: 180 seconds)
[Tue 12:30:38] <Lionel>	Chris shared the link. Page 3 has the revised version.
[Tue 12:30:57] <rgrant>	Its output includes creating draft specifications and test implementations suitable for further standardization
[Tue 12:31:15] *	manu likes rgrant's suggestion ^^^
[Tue 12:31:16] <ChristopherA>	q?
[Tue 12:31:16] <voip-vctf>	The speaker queue is empty.
[Tue 12:31:21] <JoeAndrieu>	q+
[Tue 12:31:21] <voip-vctf>	JoeAndrieu has been added to the queue: JoeAndrieu
[Tue 12:31:27] <manu>	q+ rgrant
[Tue 12:31:28] <voip-vctf>	manu has been added to the queue: JoeAndrieu, rgrant
[Tue 12:31:31] <ChristopherA>	ack JoeAndrieu
[Tue 12:31:31] <voip-vctf>	JoeAndrieu has the floor.
[Tue 12:31:33] *	manu pushes rgrant onto the queue. :)
[Tue 12:31:43] *	manu to suggest his change.
[Tue 12:31:43] <ChristopherA>	q+
[Tue 12:31:43] <voip-vctf>	ChristopherA has been added to the queue: rgrant, ChristopherA
[Tue 12:32:42] <kimhd>	q+
[Tue 12:32:42] <voip-vctf>	kimhd has been added to the queue: rgrant, ChristopherA, kimhd
[Tue 12:32:50] <drummond>	Suggests we use the phrase "both centralized, federated, and decentralized entities".
[Tue 12:33:04] <ChristopherA>	ack rgrant
[Tue 12:33:04] <voip-vctf>	rgrant has the floor.
[Tue 12:33:05] <drummond>	q+
[Tue 12:33:05] <voip-vctf>	drummond has been added to the queue: ChristopherA, kimhd, drummond
[Tue 12:33:07] *	manu likes that too, drummond ^^^
[Tue 12:33:35] <dlongley>	"both" might need to be removed in that case :)
[Tue 12:34:11] <voip-vctf>	13125222321 [SIP/69.65.34.216-000002d7] has joined the conference.
[Tue 12:34:25] <rgrant>	voip: rgrant is 2d7
[Tue 12:34:25] <voip-vctf>	Failed to associate "rgrant"; unrecognized channel.
[Tue 12:34:46] <burn>	We cannot call it a W3C standard or a W3C Recommendation
[Tue 12:34:58] <burn>	but we can call it a specification
[Tue 12:35:12] <ChristopherA>	q?
[Tue 12:35:12] <voip-vctf>	The current speaker queue is: ChristopherA, kimhd, drummond
[Tue 12:35:17] <ChristopherA>	ack ChristopherA
[Tue 12:35:17] <voip-vctf>	ChristopherA has the floor.
[Tue 12:35:20] <ChristopherA>	ack kim
[Tue 12:35:20] <voip-vctf>	kim isn't on the speaker queue.
[Tue 12:35:25] <ChristopherA>	ack kimhd
[Tue 12:35:25] <voip-vctf>	kimhd has the floor.
[Tue 12:36:06] <rgrant>	voip: 2d7 is rgrant
[Tue 12:36:06] <voip-vctf>	Associated rgrant with SIP/69.65.34.216-000002d7.
[Tue 12:36:42] <JoeAndrieu>	q+
[Tue 12:36:42] <voip-vctf>	JoeAndrieu has been added to the queue: drummond, JoeAndrieu
[Tue 12:37:40] *	Lionel has quit (Ping timeout: 180 seconds)
[Tue 12:38:25] <ChristopherA>	q?
[Tue 12:38:26] <voip-vctf>	The current speaker queue is: drummond, JoeAndrieu
[Tue 12:38:32] <ChristopherA>	ack drummond
[Tue 12:38:32] <voip-vctf>	drummond has the floor.
[Tue 12:39:11] <JoeAndrieu>	+ 1 federations
[Tue 12:39:12] <cwebber2>	q+
[Tue 12:39:12] <voip-vctf>	cwebber2 has been added to the queue: JoeAndrieu, cwebber2
[Tue 12:39:26] <Moses>	you never use the term "reputation", is that deliberate?
[Tue 12:39:39] <JoeAndrieu>	q?
[Tue 12:39:39] <voip-vctf>	The current speaker queue is: JoeAndrieu, cwebber2
[Tue 12:39:48] <drummond>	I think it's good to include the whole spectrum of optionsâ€”centralized, federated, decentralized, self-sovereign.
[Tue 12:40:00] *	Lionel (~Lionel@public.cloak) has joined #vctf
[Tue 12:40:20] <JoeAndrieu>	+1 I like that framing of the spectrum: centralized, federated, decentralized, self-sovereign
[Tue 12:40:21] <dlongley>	membership is bounded/enumerable
[Tue 12:40:39] <Lionel>	Ryan: (adding language around output of the community)
[Tue 12:40:39] <Lionel>	ChristopherA: made changes in the text.
[Tue 12:40:39] <Lionel>	Kim: Discussion. Self-sovereign identity seems more critical to the recipient-side, enables longevity of claims etc.
[Tue 12:40:39] <Lionel>	... the new version seems more on the sender-side.
[Tue 12:40:40] <Lionel>	... Joe can you clarify self-sovereign identity.
[Tue 12:40:40] <Lionel>	ChristopherA: Add to doc, this seems to be issuer-centric, perhaps we can add more language around the bearer/holder
[Tue 12:40:58] <Lionel>	q?
[Tue 12:40:58] <voip-vctf>	The current speaker queue is: JoeAndrieu, cwebber2
[Tue 12:41:05] <drummond>	By "federation", I mean this definition: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Federated_identity
[Tue 12:41:13] <rgrant>	q+ One of the ideas of the DID spec is that you can tie to DNS identities that might be protected with current centralized key infrastructure.  Drummond, is this that point?
[Tue 12:41:13] <voip-vctf>	rgrant has been added to the queue: JoeAndrieu, cwebber2, rgrant
[Tue 12:41:28] <ChristopherA>	q?
[Tue 12:41:28] <voip-vctf>	The current speaker queue is: JoeAndrieu, cwebber2, rgrant
[Tue 12:41:32] <ChristopherA>	ack JoeAndrieu
[Tue 12:41:32] <voip-vctf>	JoeAndrieu has the floor.
[Tue 12:42:04] <cwebber2>	q-
[Tue 12:42:04] <voip-vctf>	cwebber2 has been removed from the queue: rgrant
[Tue 12:42:23] <manu>	+1 to JoeA - it feels like we're listing different categories.
[Tue 12:42:32] <drummond>	+1 to replacing "self-sovereign issuers" with "self-sovereign identities".
[Tue 12:42:36] *	agropper_ has quit (Ping timeout: 180 seconds)
[Tue 12:42:45] <Moses>	q+
[Tue 12:42:45] <voip-vctf>	Moses has been added to the queue: rgrant, Moses
[Tue 12:42:52] <rgrant>	way better
[Tue 12:43:10] *	manu stand on your head! The Electromagnetics work better when you're inverted. :P
[Tue 12:43:20] *	kimhd Thanks Joe
[Tue 12:43:25] <ChristopherA>	q?
[Tue 12:43:25] <voip-vctf>	The current speaker queue is: rgrant, Moses
[Tue 12:43:33] <ChristopherA>	ack rgrant
[Tue 12:43:33] <voip-vctf>	rgrant has the floor (One of the ideas of the DID spec is that you can tie to DNS identities that might be protected with current centralized key infrastructure.  Drummond, is this that point?).
[Tue 12:44:04] <JoeAndrieu>	thanks, Manu. I wasn't even sure if these earbuds had a mic when we started the call. ;)
[Tue 12:44:05] <Lionel>	Ryan: Drummond link to federated identity is helpful.
[Tue 12:44:24] <ChristopherA>	q?
[Tue 12:44:24] <voip-vctf>	The current speaker queue is: Moses
[Tue 12:44:30] <ChristopherA>	q+ ChristopherA
[Tue 12:44:31] <voip-vctf>	ChristopherA has been added to the queue: Moses, ChristopherA
[Tue 12:44:35] <ChristopherA>	ack Moses
[Tue 12:44:35] <voip-vctf>	Moses has the floor.
[Tue 12:44:42] <Lionel>	Moses: Please address 'reputation'
[Tue 12:44:51] *	cwebber2 added the issue at the bottom
[Tue 12:45:17] <drummond>	I suggest changing "federation" to "federated identity systems" to clear up any confusion with other meanings of federation.
[Tue 12:45:44] <Lionel>	ChristopherA: Reputation is a kind of credential and should be allowed for, but reputation brings many other ideas/concepts along with it, and broadens the scope significantly
[Tue 12:46:37] *	cwebber2 dlongley I followed up to your comment, would be good to understand
[Tue 12:46:54] <drummond>	We could say that "The outputs of the CCG could also support the development of interoperable reputation systems."
[Tue 12:47:03] <JoeAndrieu>	q+
[Tue 12:47:03] <voip-vctf>	JoeAndrieu has been added to the queue: ChristopherA, JoeAndrieu
[Tue 12:47:05] *	agropper (~agropper@public.cloak) has joined #vctf
[Tue 12:47:36] <Lionel>	Moses: proposes defining reputation as a collection of credentials
[Tue 12:47:52] <rgrant>	q+ Should we play with reputation more in test implementations before putting it on the group agenda?
[Tue 12:47:52] <voip-vctf>	rgrant has been added to the queue: ChristopherA, JoeAndrieu, rgrant
[Tue 12:48:13] <Lionel>	Manu: Moses definition aligns with many discussions we have had. Given that, let's focus on the credential building blocks
[Tue 12:48:50] <rgrant>	q- Seems like I'm agreeing with Manu here
[Tue 12:48:50] <voip-vctf>	Seems isn't on the speaker queue.
[Tue 12:48:59] <rgrant>	q- rgrant Seems like I'm agreeing with Manu here
[Tue 12:48:59] <voip-vctf>	rgrant has been removed from the queue: ChristopherA, JoeAndrieu
[Tue 12:49:23] <Lionel>	Moses: ok, but let's make sure the building blocks collect the data needed to enable reputation.
[Tue 12:50:11] <Lionel>	ChristopherA: Let's defer that discussion
[Tue 12:50:12] <voip-vctf>	16179245273 [SIP/69.65.34.216-000002d8] has joined the conference.
[Tue 12:50:24] <rgrant>	+1 Internet
[Tue 12:50:26] <Lionel>	ChristopherA: Internet vs web?
[Tue 12:50:30] <JoeAndrieu>	+1 internet
[Tue 12:50:36] <Lionel>	+1 internet
[Tue 12:50:48] <rgrant>	JoeAndrieu: watch that capitalization ;P
[Tue 12:50:54] *	Lionel should we now debate capital I or lowercase?
[Tue 12:50:58] <Moses>	I'd be happy to lead a discussion in a month or so on low level functionality in VC that can support the development of robust interoperable reputation systems
[Tue 12:51:01] *	Lionel joe you beat me!
[Tue 12:51:08] *	manu suggests Interwebs  to please both camps :P
[Tue 12:51:30] <Lionel>	ChristopherA: decentralized registry v blockchains
[Tue 12:51:38] <rgrant>	q+
[Tue 12:51:38] <voip-vctf>	rgrant has been added to the queue: ChristopherA, JoeAndrieu, rgrant
[Tue 12:51:38] <JoeAndrieu>	rgrant: correct. The Internet
[Tue 12:51:38] <Lionel>	ChristopherA: Thoughts?
[Tue 12:51:39] <kimhd>	q+
[Tue 12:51:39] <voip-vctf>	kimhd has been added to the queue: ChristopherA, JoeAndrieu, rgrant, kimhd
[Tue 12:51:57] <kimhd>	q-
[Tue 12:51:57] <voip-vctf>	kimhd has been removed from the queue: ChristopherA, JoeAndrieu, rgrant
[Tue 12:51:59] <drummond>	We don't use the term "blockchain" or "DLT" anywhere in the mission statement now.
[Tue 12:52:04] <JoeAndrieu>	not blockchains. +1 decentralized registries is inclusive without being restrictive
[Tue 12:52:06] <ChristopherA>	q?
[Tue 12:52:06] <voip-vctf>	The current speaker queue is: ChristopherA, JoeAndrieu, rgrant
[Tue 12:52:10] <ChristopherA>	ack ChristopherA
[Tue 12:52:10] <voip-vctf>	ChristopherA has the floor.
[Tue 12:52:10] <dlongley>	"blockchain" is unnecessarily specific, IMO
[Tue 12:52:12] <ChristopherA>	ack joe
[Tue 12:52:12] <voip-vctf>	joe isn't on the speaker queue.
[Tue 12:52:13] <rgrant>	q- rgrant +1 for DLT
[Tue 12:52:13] <voip-vctf>	rgrant has been removed from the queue: JoeAndrieu
[Tue 12:52:19] <Lionel>	q+
[Tue 12:52:19] <voip-vctf>	Lionel has been added to the queue: JoeAndrieu, Lionel
[Tue 12:52:21] <kimhd>	agree on blockchain too specific
[Tue 12:52:36] <ChristopherA>	ack JoeAndrieu
[Tue 12:52:36] <voip-vctf>	JoeAndrieu has the floor.
[Tue 12:52:44] <webber>	I even think that DLT is too specific, since I'm not confident using a DHT really qualifies as a DLT
[Tue 12:52:45] <Lionel>	+1 blockchain too specific
[Tue 12:52:57] <ChristopherA>	q?
[Tue 12:52:57] <voip-vctf>	The current speaker queue is: Lionel
[Tue 12:53:03] <webber>	decentralized registries is good
[Tue 12:53:04] <ChristopherA>	ack Lionel
[Tue 12:53:04] <voip-vctf>	Lionel has the floor.
[Tue 12:53:17] <agropper>	I agree that reputation is much bigger than a set of credentials
[Tue 12:53:30] <manu>	Lionel: Decentralization and immutability are the key characteristics we want to go for... we don't want to be more specific and say "blockchain".
[Tue 12:53:34] <cwebber2>	+1 to registry
[Tue 12:53:47] *	Lionel manu thanks for scribing while i was blabbing
[Tue 12:53:56] *	manu happy to... :)
[Tue 12:53:56] <rgrant>	changing my +1 to registry.  seems sufficient for now.
[Tue 12:54:24] <Lionel>	ChristopherA: ...continues reading and discussing wording [see google doe for comments there] ...
[Tue 12:54:40] <webber>	btw, I'm convinced now that federation aligns with the decentralized social web usage
[Tue 12:54:47] <webber>	so a-ok with me
[Tue 12:55:12] *	cwebber2 on that note need to drop off to get to the decentralized social web meeting, take care
[Tue 12:55:44] <Lionel>	ChristopherA: let's privilege terms that are more amenable to search engine access
[Tue 12:57:11] <rgrant>	what does "incubate" add?
[Tue 12:57:13] <Moses>	To draw interest, we should mention more benefits?
[Tue 12:58:01] <kimhd>	I think experimental is redundant now
[Tue 12:58:53] <JoeAndrieu>	That was amazing collaborative editing. Much improved, folks.
[Tue 12:59:59] <kimhd>	I think we can close next week -- we seem close
[Tue 13:00:11] <drummond>	Yes, we can close next week
[Tue 13:00:18] *	agropper has quit (Ping timeout: 180 seconds)
[Tue 13:00:19] *	manu can stay a bit longer.
[Tue 13:00:20] <drummond>	I have to leave now, sorry
[Tue 13:00:27] <JoeAndrieu>	send not to list. we can close next week
[Tue 13:00:32] <JoeAndrieu>	note to list
[Tue 13:00:37] <manu>	yes, give us a week to marinate on it...
[Tue 13:00:41] <drummond>	+1
[Tue 13:00:41] <manu>	Present+ nage, longley, sporny, lehn, squarfed, Andrieu, amigus, webber, moses, rgrant, burn, lionel
