[2024-09-10T15:54:53.005Z]	<Harrison_Tang>	present+
[2024-09-10T15:58:16.780Z]	<Will_Abramson>	present+
[2024-09-10T15:59:50.897Z]	<Hiroyuki_Sano>	present+
[2024-09-10T15:59:53.216Z]	<Andrew_Trask>	present+
[2024-09-10T16:00:03.785Z]	<econnell>	present+
[2024-09-10T16:00:20.704Z]	<Benjamin_Young>	present+
[2024-09-10T16:00:27.738Z]	<Kimberly_Wilson_Linson>	present+
[2024-09-10T16:01:22.310Z]	<Vanessa>	present+
[2024-09-10T16:01:33.275Z]	<Joe_Andrieu>	present+
[2024-09-10T16:02:06.144Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	present+
[2024-09-10T16:02:18.107Z]	<James_Chartrand>	present+
[2024-09-10T16:02:31.886Z]	<Transcriber>	scribe+
[2024-09-10T16:02:31.887Z]	<Transcriber>	Meeting: weekly
[2024-09-10T16:02:46.632Z]	<Dmitri_Zagidulin>	present+
[2024-09-10T16:02:47.186Z]	<Transcriber>	Harrison_Tang: Give me a second.
[2024-09-10T16:03:19.110Z]	<Transcriber>	scribe+
[2024-09-10T16:03:19.110Z]	<Transcriber>	Meeting: weekly
[2024-09-10T16:03:20.471Z]	<James_Chartrand>	present+
[2024-09-10T16:04:03.003Z]	<Leo>	present+
[2024-09-10T16:05:30.301Z]	<Patrick_St.>	present+
[2024-09-10T16:05:45.111Z]	<Wendy_Seltzer_(she/her)>	present+
[2024-09-10T16:06:05.406Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Yeah I can just do 1 I haven't done 1 in in years um I my name's Moni I'm 1 of the uh lead editors and architects of a number of global standards around digital credentials uh notably privacy preserving credentials um uh I've also worked with um I think some of your colleagues uh at uh and uh openai and a number of other um kind of AI companies on this new proof of personhood.
[2024-09-10T16:06:45.891Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Paper yeah the the personhood credentials paper um and we're trying to figure out a way of uh translating the needs in that paper to uh Global standards here um so we kind of incubate those things in this group and then we take it through the global standards track at the internet engineering task force or the worldwide Web Consortium so I'm 1 of many people in this community that tries to make the web uh a better more privacy preserving uh thing for uh humanity and so really appreciate the work that uh you're doing um in that same vein that's it.
[2024-09-10T16:07:20.976Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	https://github.com/w3c/tpac2024-breakouts/issues/37
[2024-09-10T16:07:44.002Z]	<Lucy_Yang>	present+
[2024-09-10T16:08:01.561Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Sorry just just a few um so uh the w3c uh in-person technical plenary is coming up um at the end of this month uh so that's going to be several hundred of us uh in Anaheim California um 1 of the breakout sessions is on and I'll put a link to this in the chat Channel um on uh the future future standards and Innovations for w3c verifiable credentials um we are going to be covering a lot of stuff that's an incubation in this uh group uh so render method confidence method unlabel ecdsa cryptography Suites uh verifiable credential barcodes verifiable credential API uh transmitting verifiable credentials over Wireless near field communication peer-to-peer and then a variety of vocabulary work so that link takes you to the breakout session um I believe the I I don't know if this is true I think the breakout sessions are.
[2024-09-10T16:08:02.167Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny:  open to.
[2024-09-10T16:08:14.380Z]	<Alex_H>	present+
[2024-09-10T16:08:19.393Z]	<PL>	present+
[2024-09-10T16:08:24.704Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: And you can attend remotely um but I'm not not positive about that um so just a heads up there uh the other note is that uh we are continuing to finalize the global standards track stuff for verifiable credentials data Integrity uh in the verified credential working group uh we are continuing to pick up uh implementers I think we have.
[2024-09-10T16:08:42.549Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: 11 to 15 now which is great um uh in just a a call out if you are working on an implementation for any of the global standards uh please let us know so we can count you in the number of implementations uh that's it from me.
[2024-09-10T16:08:58.285Z]	<Kaliya_Identity_Woman>	present+
[2024-09-10T16:10:52.918Z]	<Jeff_O_-_HumanOS>	present+
[2024-09-10T16:11:11.103Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	present+
[2024-09-10T16:11:40.748Z]	<Eric>	present+
[2024-09-10T16:13:03.733Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	No, please give an intro
[2024-09-10T16:13:17.921Z]	<Patrick_St.>	an introduction would be really useful for me
[2024-09-10T16:20:29.015Z]	<bengo>	present+
[2024-09-10T16:21:10.335Z]	<Jennie_M>	present+
[2024-09-10T16:21:27.362Z]	<bengo>	present+
[2024-09-10T16:21:38.445Z]	<TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com)>	present+
[2024-09-10T16:24:10.406Z]	<TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com)>	Hmm. Transcriber doesn't appear to be hearing Andrew. Does that mean the recording will also lack his voice?
[2024-09-10T16:24:23.111Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	recording will have his voice.
[2024-09-10T16:27:55.604Z]	<Harrison_Tang>	yeah, transcriber doesn't work for non-US inputs, but the recording (video and audio) will work.
[2024-09-10T16:32:28.476Z]	<Will_Abramson>	present+
[2024-09-10T16:32:28.989Z]	<Harrison_Tang>	present+
[2024-09-10T16:32:29.517Z]	<Dmitri_Zagidulin>	present+
[2024-09-10T16:32:29.925Z]	<Vanessa>	present+
[2024-09-10T16:32:31.803Z]	<Patrick_St.>	present+
[2024-09-10T16:32:31.936Z]	<Benjamin_Young>	present+
[2024-09-10T16:32:33.237Z]	<Wendy_Seltzer_(she/her)>	present+
[2024-09-10T16:32:35.229Z]	<Transcriber>	scribe+
[2024-09-10T16:32:35.229Z]	<Transcriber>	Meeting: weekly
[2024-09-10T16:32:36.362Z]	<Andrew_Trask>	present+
[2024-09-10T16:32:40.910Z]	<Transcriber>	Patrick_St.: Was that just me no okay.
[2024-09-10T16:32:43.373Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: No a bunch of us got kicked off.
[2024-09-10T16:32:45.423Z]	<Transcriber>	Patrick_St.: I was getting pretty juicy.
[2024-09-10T16:32:46.548Z]	<econnell>	present+
[2024-09-10T16:32:49.043Z]	<Hiroyuki_Sano>	present+
[2024-09-10T16:32:50.705Z]	<Leo>	present+
[2024-09-10T16:32:54.586Z]	<PL>	present+
[2024-09-10T16:32:57.011Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	present+
[2024-09-10T16:33:00.000Z]	<Alex_H>	present+
[2024-09-10T16:33:05.546Z]	<Kaliya_Identity_Woman>	present+
[2024-09-10T16:33:06.760Z]	<Kimberly_Wilson_Linson>	present+
[2024-09-10T16:33:12.347Z]	<Joe_Andrieu>	present+
[2024-09-10T16:33:19.075Z]	<Jennie_M>	present+
[2024-09-10T16:34:10.953Z]	<Jennie_M>	present+
[2024-09-10T16:37:01.923Z]	<Eric>	present+
[2024-09-10T16:39:05.408Z]	<bengo>	ðŸ˜…
[2024-09-10T16:39:06.056Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	/me calls his lawyer. :P
[2024-09-10T16:46:18.799Z]	<Jennie_M>	present+
[2024-09-10T16:52:00.570Z]	<Harrison_Tang>	q+
[2024-09-10T16:52:49.087Z]	<Transcriber>	Harrison_Tang: Yes uh well Andrew uh thank you for a great great presentation I really enjoy it um now in the last uh example you gave is it a home more morphic encryption where you you just like encrypt data and do calculations on it and uh if it's not how is homomorphic encryption calculations different from multi-party computation.
[2024-09-10T16:52:51.881Z]	<Harrison_Tang>	q-
[2024-09-10T16:54:33.801Z]	<bengo>	ðŸš€ https://docs.rs/risc0-zkvm/latest/risc0_zkvm/
[2024-09-10T16:55:05.838Z]	<Transcriber>	Harrison_Tang: Got it sorry a quick follow-up question uh like earlier so you mentioned about performance trade-offs like what is the uh practical applications uh because like we we actually try it like 4 years ago on the homomorphic uh encryption it was like really really slow so basically practically speaking is not very usable so like how how is how has that advanced like uh in the recent times in terms of performance.
[2024-09-10T16:55:25.202Z]	<Will_Abramson>	q+
[2024-09-10T16:56:48.116Z]	<Harrison_Tang>	ack manu
[2024-09-10T16:57:35.935Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Uh thanks uh Andrew that that was fantastic a great presentation thank you um uh 1 of the things I'm wondering is about you know what what can we be working on that's going to help um you know your initiatives I think what's what's missing right now is kind of the glue that binds our community together with the um kind of the the the AI community so you know we've got tools and we are actively working on zero knowledge proof uh mechanisms Advanced ones Beyond just like you know BBS and things like that so cryptographic circuits and um zkm and snarks and snarks and you know all all that kind of stuff um but we largely think in kind of you know single credentials like a driver's license or a passport or a or a health checkup right I mean you you can have you know education certificates that kind of thing that are held in people's you know private data stores or digital wallets um and and so and there and everything's digitally signed by issuer so this is you know.
[2024-09-10T16:57:36.723Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny:  as as you.
[2024-09-10T16:57:37.129Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: You have said hi.
[2024-09-10T16:58:20.345Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Trusted data that is sitting with an individual um and and we have ways of doing a zero knowledge proof on that information that we're holding and then presenting it to in general to the public or to a to a specific thing um but but I think the thing that's missing is we we don't understand um what other things we should be working on that would be high value to your community right so so like you know what are the you know we we've got we've got a set of Technologies and we could run down them and say this is what they do and here's how we think it can help you but we don't have someone from your side going yeah but what we really need is X.
[2024-09-10T16:59:21.416Z]	<Wendy_Seltzer_(she/her)>	Why HTTPS?
[2024-09-10T16:59:53.160Z]	<Wendy_Seltzer_(she/her)>	q+
[2024-09-10T17:01:05.845Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Okay that's very helpful and and how do we keep in touch with you um that's the that's I think the key thing is that this is this needs to be an ongoing conversation so we need to figure out how we keep the conversation going Beyond this um this meeting.
[2024-09-10T17:01:09.581Z]	<Wendy_Seltzer_(she/her)>	(would love to follow up, but need to leave now)
[2024-09-10T17:01:26.250Z]	<Andrew_Trask>	slack.openmined.org
[2024-09-10T17:01:27.271Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Got it thank.
[2024-09-10T17:02:19.804Z]	<Harrison_Tang>	thank you, Andrew!
