[2021-03-03T18:00:21.881Z]	<econnell>	present+
[2021-03-03T18:00:24.670Z]	<mprorock>	present+
[2021-03-03T18:00:41.016Z]	<JeffO-StL>	Present+
[2021-03-03T18:00:41.127Z]	<TallTed>	present+
[2021-03-03T18:01:19.369Z]	<rhiaro>	present+
[2021-03-03T18:02:36.613Z]	<cel>	present+
[2021-03-03T18:02:49.601Z]	<Jeff_Stephens>	present+
[2021-03-03T18:02:57.423Z]	<brentz>	present+
[2021-03-03T18:03:02.293Z]	<tayken>	present+
[2021-03-03T18:03:27.678Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	present+
[2021-03-03T18:03:28.820Z]	<Troy_Ronda>	present+
[2021-03-03T18:03:34.116Z]	<Phil.L>	present+
[2021-03-03T18:03:42.412Z]	<agropper>	present+
[2021-03-03T18:03:46.808Z]	<heathervescent>	present+
[2021-03-03T18:04:35.122Z]	<dlongley>	present+
[2021-03-03T18:04:49.435Z]	<dmitriz>	present+
[2021-03-03T18:04:49.935Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	Agenda: https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-credentials/2021Mar/0012.html
[2021-03-03T18:04:50.970Z]	<dmitriz>	scribe+
[2021-03-03T18:05:13.112Z]	<dmitriz>	wayne: Introductions and re-introductions
[2021-03-03T18:06:04.926Z]	<dmitriz>	TroyRonda: Hi, I'm Troy from SecureKey.
[2021-03-03T18:06:10.482Z]	<dmitriz>	wayne: what brings you to this CCG call? :)
[2021-03-03T18:06:26.513Z]	<dmitriz>	TroyRonda: a late-night message asking me to present on did:orb!
[2021-03-03T18:06:38.740Z]	<dmitriz>	wayne: Moving on to announcements.
[2021-03-03T18:06:46.158Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	I love the did orb emoji
[2021-03-03T18:06:49.054Z]	<dmitriz>	... the Thoughtful Biometrics Workshop is in progress
[2021-03-03T18:07:09.740Z]	<dmitriz>	... any other announcements or reminders?
[2021-03-03T18:07:29.523Z]	<dmitriz>	manu: the DID Core Specification is in its final review before it goes into CR (Candidate Recommendation) phase
[2021-03-03T18:07:44.862Z]	<dmitriz>	... that means - we were feature frozen (as of last July). the spec is now more or less locked in.
[2021-03-03T18:07:57.456Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	https://www.w3.org/TR/2021/WD-did-core-20210302/
[2021-03-03T18:08:02.014Z]	<dmitriz>	... meaning, the group feels it's done with the technical work, and now moving on to the test suite & implementation phase
[2021-03-03T18:08:12.436Z]	<dmitriz>	... the specific version that we're freezing is in chat above.
[2021-03-03T18:08:30.892Z]	<dmitriz>	... so, if you were waiting for a good time to review it, this is it. Starting next Tues, if the vote goes well, the DID Core spec will be at CR.
[2021-03-03T18:08:40.884Z]	<dmitriz>	... this stage lasts for about 2 months. we try to get a ton of implementations in 2-3 months.
[2021-03-03T18:09:11.955Z]	<dmitriz>	... sometimes we find bugs in the spec, and have to go into a second CR phase (another 2 months or so). Which means, in 4 months or so, we'll have a good idea whether we're on track to a legit global standard
[2021-03-03T18:09:25.301Z]	<dmitriz>	... and it's looking good, on that trajectory. (possibly by Sept this year, at the latest).
[2021-03-03T18:09:32.102Z]	<dmitriz>	... so, it's great bedtime reading! highly recommended!
[2021-03-03T18:09:55.133Z]	<dmitriz>	wayne: minor correction - not just /great/ bedtime reading, it's downright /ravishing/
[2021-03-03T18:09:56.159Z]	<mprorock>	erruptions of cheers for manu, markus, drummond and every one else involved!
[2021-03-03T18:10:11.787Z]	<dmitriz>	wayne: on to Work Item review
[2021-03-03T18:10:16.684Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/community/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3A%22action%3A+review+next%22
[2021-03-03T18:10:18.934Z]	<dmitriz>	... two action items we'll update on
[2021-03-03T18:10:28.593Z]	<dmitriz>	... the VC Maintenance Meeting
[2021-03-03T18:10:49.222Z]	<dmitriz>	... we're working on a work item within the CCG that will describe the VC Data Model Spec maintenance projects
[2021-03-03T18:10:57.057Z]	<dmitriz>	... second item - Asia/Pacific meeting.
[2021-03-03T18:11:15.543Z]	<dmitriz>	... the Infrastructure Taskforce met, we were just talking about various long-standing issues
[2021-03-03T18:11:24.932Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/infrastructure/issues
[2021-03-03T18:11:37.534Z]	<dmitriz>	... you can view all the issues (link above), which serve as the minutes of the meeting.
[2021-03-03T18:12:04.975Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/community/issues/139
[2021-03-03T18:12:07.317Z]	<dmitriz>	... re Asia/Pacific meeting - time and date TBD, but Infra Taskforce will propose.
[2021-03-03T18:12:20.334Z]	<dmitriz>	wayne: moving on - DID Core Test Suite.
[2021-03-03T18:12:27.568Z]	<dmitriz>	... we have Brent here who is co-chair of the DID WG.
[2021-03-03T18:12:45.225Z]	<dmitriz>	brentz: as Manu mentioned, we are moments away from transitioning to CR
[2021-03-03T18:12:51.411Z]	<dmitriz>	... this means we are heavily involved in constructing the Test Suite
[2021-03-03T18:12:57.033Z]	<dmitriz>	... its purpose is twofold -
[2021-03-03T18:13:03.539Z]	<dmitriz>	... first, to demonstrate the spec is implementable
[2021-03-03T18:13:15.412Z]	<dmitriz>	... second, to show that each of the features in the spec has implementation support
[2021-03-03T18:13:24.290Z]	<dmitriz>	... so not only /can/ it be implemented, but that it has been.
[2021-03-03T18:13:38.177Z]	<dmitriz>	... important to demonstrate this to W3C management, that it's ready to move from CR into the next phase
[2021-03-03T18:13:49.815Z]	<dmitriz>	... the Test Suite is the vehicle by which we can get the most hands-on real world feedback for the spec
[2021-03-03T18:14:00.709Z]	<dmitriz>	... we fully anticipate it'll uncover bugs in the standard that'll need to be addressed
[2021-03-03T18:14:13.814Z]	<dmitriz>	... the basic structure of the test suite is - we have divided up the normative issues of the spec into different feature sets
[2021-03-03T18:14:20.554Z]	<dmitriz>	... tests are being written as we speak, for those feature sets.
[2021-03-03T18:14:34.850Z]	<dmitriz>	... once those are together, they'll be fairly clear instructions for every implementer,
[2021-03-03T18:14:45.733Z]	<dmitriz>	... to test their implementation (of a DID Method) against the spec
[2021-03-03T18:14:57.708Z]	<dmitriz>	... the different feature sets are described in issues in the DID Test Suite repo
[2021-03-03T18:15:11.727Z]	<dmitriz>	... you'll see that each of the feature sets have been assigned to someone. but I'm positive those people would love help
[2021-03-03T18:15:17.387Z]	<kezike>	present+
[2021-03-03T18:15:19.273Z]	<dmitriz>	... so anyone interested in helping should jump in and do so
[2021-03-03T18:15:23.690Z]	<dmitriz>	... Any questions?
[2021-03-03T18:15:25.709Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	q?
[2021-03-03T18:15:30.375Z]	<brentz>	https://github.com/w3c/did-test-suite/issues
[2021-03-03T18:15:42.565Z]	<dmitriz>	wayne: Brent has dropped a link to the test suite
[2021-03-03T18:15:47.488Z]	<dmitriz>	... feel free to engage with issues there!
[2021-03-03T18:15:57.519Z]	<dmitriz>	... if no questions/comments to Brent, moving on to next item
[2021-03-03T18:15:59.431Z]	<Troy_Ronda>	https://trustbloc.github.io/did-method-orb/
[2021-03-03T18:16:03.688Z]	<dmitriz>	topic: did:orb Method
[2021-03-03T18:16:21.166Z]	<dmitriz>	wayne: over to you, Troy
[2021-03-03T18:16:39.630Z]	<dmitriz>	Troy_Ronda: thank you. I pasted a link to the spec in the chat. ::sharing screen::
[2021-03-03T18:17:21.181Z]	<dmitriz>	... did:orb - a little bit of background
[2021-03-03T18:17:36.879Z]	<dmitriz>	... we have previous experience in implementing DID Methods on Hyperledger Fabric, using the Sidetree protocol defined in DIF
[2021-03-03T18:17:50.542Z]	<dmitriz>	... did:orb is taking those experiences we had with Sidetree and HL Fabric, and trying to shift it into a more open Federation model
[2021-03-03T18:18:01.447Z]	<dmitriz>	... meaning, anyone participating can replicate all of the prior state from other participants in the network
[2021-03-03T18:18:09.506Z]	<dmitriz>	... and be able to follow and join between the different systems
[2021-03-03T18:18:26.426Z]	<dmitriz>	... the important characteristic of Sidetree that we brought with us is - the DID is Self-Certifying
[2021-03-03T18:18:35.080Z]	<dmitriz>	... the DID suffix is bound to the did document, cryptographically
[2021-03-03T18:18:45.168Z]	<dmitriz>	... the DID Docs are forming their own chain, from inception to the current.
[2021-03-03T18:19:00.178Z]	<dmitriz>	... so, we're not relying on a traditional consensus model to decide whether a DID Doc is valid;
[2021-03-03T18:19:06.184Z]	<dmitriz>	... it's validated by the controller's signature
[2021-03-03T18:19:19.034Z]	<dmitriz>	... we have a VDR for did doc storage
[2021-03-03T18:19:31.115Z]	<dmitriz>	... we have an endorsement model (from Fabric) for propagation
[2021-03-03T18:19:39.130Z]	<dmitriz>	... ok, so, on to the first motivation - enabling open Federation
[2021-03-03T18:19:49.922Z]	<dmitriz>	... we didn't want to be coupled by a blockchain or DLT, either public or permissioned
[2021-03-03T18:20:01.166Z]	<dmitriz>	... we wanted to decouple propagation coordination into an agnostic protocol
[2021-03-03T18:20:16.247Z]	<dmitriz>	... this also meant decoupling the transaction graph from a particular ledger, and storing it on content-addressed storage
[2021-03-03T18:20:29.360Z]	<dmitriz>	... decoupling it from a DLT was important, and allowing multiple ledgers/did methods on the backend
[2021-03-03T18:20:45.768Z]	<dmitriz>	... as compared to our previous efforts on HL Fabric, this is reduced to a log aspect, rather than coordination aspec
[2021-03-03T18:20:55.824Z]	<dmitriz>	... the other main motivation was to have an open federation & replication model
[2021-03-03T18:21:08.158Z]	<dmitriz>	... meaning, VDR servers could participate in replication, and choose who to replicate with
[2021-03-03T18:21:17.594Z]	<dmitriz>	... so as not to lock-in to a particular VDR or DLT
[2021-03-03T18:21:24.786Z]	<dmitriz>	... while minimizing trust in the network and servers as much as we could
[2021-03-03T18:21:37.736Z]	<dmitriz>	... when we talk about CAS (content-addressed storage), DHTs like IPFS come up
[2021-03-03T18:21:49.233Z]	<dmitriz>	... but we wanted to have a method that also can be stored on web APIs, in addition to DHTs
[2021-03-03T18:21:59.504Z]	<dmitriz>	... since we can't always just use IPFS, although it has nice discovery properties
[2021-03-03T18:22:09.337Z]	<dmitriz>	... so, we've allowed for both Web and IPFS discovery models
[2021-03-03T18:22:21.196Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	https://trustbloc.github.io/did-method-orb/#format
[2021-03-03T18:22:31.796Z]	<dmitriz>	... so for example, we can have did:orb:web:<followed by identifier and unique suffix>
[2021-03-03T18:22:45.954Z]	<dmitriz>	... did suffix referring to the unique did document initial state
[2021-03-03T18:22:55.352Z]	<dmitriz>	... as specified in Sidetree
[2021-03-03T18:23:05.622Z]	<dmitriz>	... and then forms a chain of did updates
[2021-03-03T18:23:21.724Z]	<dmitriz>	... the discovery APIs for the web is based on WebFinger and DID Discovery,
[2021-03-03T18:23:26.901Z]	<dmitriz>	... and the DHT one is based on IPFS
[2021-03-03T18:23:42.524Z]	<dmitriz>	... Portability Requirement -- needed to be able to migrate between ledgers, while maintaing transactions
[2021-03-03T18:24:05.683Z]	<dmitriz>	... we did this by building an immutable graph (discoverable from the DID string itself, since it's an identifier of a particular point in the graph)
[2021-03-03T18:24:25.400Z]	<dmitriz>	... since this is a graph-based model, the resolving server need to be able to grab the latest transaction,
[2021-03-03T18:24:45.038Z]	<dmitriz>	... so a DID has an Origin property, that the DID Controller is claiming knows the latest transactions / DID's latest state
[2021-03-03T18:24:57.125Z]	<dmitriz>	... one of the ways we do that is by updating the initial (canonical) DID
[2021-03-03T18:25:10.620Z]	<dmitriz>	... so, by changing the Origin, it signals that a new canonical DID is available
[2021-03-03T18:25:37.297Z]	<dmitriz>	... Witnesses observe VDR objects (batches of DID updates)
[2021-03-03T18:25:51.261Z]	<dmitriz>	... what they're doing it is promising to incorporate the objects into their ledgers
[2021-03-03T18:25:57.605Z]	<dmitriz>	... this is based on Certificate Transparency spec
[2021-03-03T18:26:10.861Z]	<dmitriz>	... includes the Merge Delay mechanism, etc.
[2021-03-03T18:26:23.764Z]	<dmitriz>	... we wanted witnesses to be able to be monitored, make sure they honor their promises
[2021-03-03T18:26:30.817Z]	<dmitriz>	... if you know Sidetree, you may know of the Late Publishing issue,
[2021-03-03T18:26:38.087Z]	<dmitriz>	... where the DID Controller is creating a branch in their own operation graph
[2021-03-03T18:26:44.092Z]	<dmitriz>	... so we do use Witness timings to resolve late publishing
[2021-03-03T18:26:53.177Z]	<dmitriz>	... each system can decide which witnesses it considers to be trusted
[2021-03-03T18:27:01.911Z]	<dmitriz>	... and the Origin witness (set by did controller) can break ties
[2021-03-03T18:27:17.822Z]	<dmitriz>	... I'll speed through the last couple points
[2021-03-03T18:27:23.398Z]	<dmitriz>	... the last motivation was to leverage existings specs
[2021-03-03T18:27:27.486Z]	<dmitriz>	... of course it's DID Spec compliant
[2021-03-03T18:27:35.668Z]	<dmitriz>	... Sidetree protocol to encode updates in batches
[2021-03-03T18:27:56.899Z]	<dmitriz>	... (that's the anchor credential - see spec for details)
[2021-03-03T18:28:08.384Z]	<dmitriz>	... JSON-LD Proofs from witnesses are forming a proof chain on top of the anchor credential
[2021-03-03T18:28:15.686Z]	<dmitriz>	... we did extended Certificate Transparency for VCs
[2021-03-03T18:28:25.948Z]	<dmitriz>	... we used ActivityPub for propagation, WebFinger for web-based discovery,
[2021-03-03T18:28:33.949Z]	<dmitriz>	... and for CAS, used IPFS for content identifiers and encodings
[2021-03-03T18:28:39.233Z]	<dmitriz>	... questions?
[2021-03-03T18:28:40.312Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	q+ to say this is awesome work and how do we engage further
[2021-03-03T18:28:47.416Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	ack Manu
[2021-03-03T18:28:53.863Z]	<dmitriz>	manu: this is awesome stuff, Troy, thank you!
[2021-03-03T18:28:59.926Z]	<dmitriz>	... I know this is an enormous amount of work
[2021-03-03T18:29:16.726Z]	<dmitriz>	... I've got a thousand questions, would be great for the community to explore this stuff
[2021-03-03T18:29:25.760Z]	<dmitriz>	... Troy, chairs, how do we have more discussions around DID Methods?
[2021-03-03T18:29:38.851Z]	<dmitriz>	... there's not just two different things in did:orb, there's many, so what's the best way to engage
[2021-03-03T18:29:47.705Z]	<dmitriz>	... on this specific did method, and on methods in general?
[2021-03-03T18:30:04.910Z]	<dmitriz>	heathervescent: let us know, we can schedule discussions of particular methods
[2021-03-03T18:30:20.660Z]	<dmitriz>	Troy_Ronda: as we get the implementation going, we want to explore the best place to put this spec
[2021-03-03T18:30:27.503Z]	<dmitriz>	... we do want to see this as a Community specification,
[2021-03-03T18:30:36.578Z]	<dmitriz>	... so, we're looking for the best location for the spec & implementation work
[2021-03-03T18:30:45.596Z]	<dmitriz>	... obviously CCG and DIF are both interesting candidates for this
[2021-03-03T18:30:54.580Z]	<dmitriz>	... since it's related to DIF Sidetree, but also W3C Specs
[2021-03-03T18:31:02.840Z]	<dmitriz>	wayne: we'd certainly welcome this is a Work Item in the group
[2021-03-03T18:31:34.737Z]	<dmitriz>	... and it'll be interesting to talk with W3C staff as far as forming working groups for particular (sets of adjacent) DID Methods
[2021-03-03T18:31:40.399Z]	<dmitriz>	... any other questions for Troy?
[2021-03-03T18:31:41.112Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	q+
[2021-03-03T18:31:44.057Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	ack Wayne_Chang
[2021-03-03T18:31:44.626Z]	<dmitriz>	... ok, I have one more question
[2021-03-03T18:31:56.716Z]	<dmitriz>	... Troy, do you think you can walk us through an exmaple through DID Resolution & update?
[2021-03-03T18:32:01.869Z]	<Troy_Ronda>	Implementation: https://github.com/trustbloc/orb
[2021-03-03T18:32:02.083Z]	<dmitriz>	... picking a particular ledger / VDR
[2021-03-03T18:33:19.600Z]	<dmitriz>	wayne: screen shares Orb Network Topology slide.
[2021-03-03T18:33:48.998Z]	<dmitriz>	Troy_Ronda: on this diagram (slide 9), is the network topology
[2021-03-03T18:33:56.896Z]	<dmitriz>	... several Orb servers playing different roles in a transaction
[2021-03-03T18:34:18.683Z]	<dmitriz>	... what happens for creating/updating a DID -- a controller picks an Orb server, and submits an operation via the REST API
[2021-03-03T18:34:28.283Z]	<dmitriz>	... the API queues it up to a Sidetree batch
[2021-03-03T18:34:37.589Z]	<dmitriz>	... which basically strings together patches
[2021-03-03T18:34:46.905Z]	<dmitriz>	... the batch file is written to the CAS, which is a pluggable module
[2021-03-03T18:34:54.428Z]	<dmitriz>	... web is built in, IPFS also possible
[2021-03-03T18:35:00.232Z]	<dmitriz>	... that creates the Anchor Writer
[2021-03-03T18:35:12.387Z]	<dmitriz>	... that holds a reference to the CID of the Sidetree Batch
[2021-03-03T18:35:19.328Z]	<dmitriz>	... sends an ActivityPub message
[2021-03-03T18:35:33.257Z]	<dmitriz>	... notifies any Witnesses (collected from its own settings, as well as the Origins of DID Docs in the batch)
[2021-03-03T18:35:47.350Z]	<dmitriz>	... sends an AP message of an Offer, which is an Anchor credential signed by the originating Orb server
[2021-03-03T18:36:18.270Z]	<dmitriz>	... the receiver Witness signs off, commits to updating it into its ledger, and returns an Endorsement result (an AP Like activity actually)
[2021-03-03T18:36:39.054Z]	<dmitriz>	... the Orb server collects all these LD Proofs (endorsements etc), and writes it to the CAS
[2021-03-03T18:37:04.420Z]	<dmitriz>	... once written to the CAS, it gives it both to its own observer, but also uses the info to update any DIDs that it might have. Sends it to its Followers (ActivityPub style)
[2021-03-03T18:37:29.761Z]	<dmitriz>	... the creation of an Anchor Credential is sent as an AP 'Create' Message
[2021-03-03T18:37:37.439Z]	<dmitriz>	... so that's on the write side. on the Read side,
[2021-03-03T18:37:52.942Z]	<dmitriz>	... the resolver would call the Sidetree Rest API (the normal http binding for DID Resolution spec)
[2021-03-03T18:38:13.153Z]	<dmitriz>	... (there's some replication-related details)
[2021-03-03T18:38:27.496Z]	<dmitriz>	... so it's possible to discover new Orb servers via did resolution
[2021-03-03T18:38:31.934Z]	<dmitriz>	... so that's roughly the topology
[2021-03-03T18:38:49.713Z]	<dmitriz>	... if you're using IPFS, you can put ipfs: and the CID right into the DID identifier
[2021-03-03T18:39:03.438Z]	<dmitriz>	wayne: thank you, excellent overview
[2021-03-03T18:39:11.458Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	q?
[2021-03-03T18:39:13.956Z]	<dmitriz>	... and a lot of people would be excited to engage further
[2021-03-03T18:39:16.768Z]	<TallTed>	q+
[2021-03-03T18:39:22.284Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	ack TallTed
[2021-03-03T18:39:28.068Z]	<dmitriz>	TallTed: is there a link to the slides pdf?
[2021-03-03T18:39:52.678Z]	<dmitriz>	Troy_Ronda: I'll try to find a place to post it. or just email it to me.
[2021-03-03T18:40:03.927Z]	<dmitriz>	wayne: you can send it to the mailing list
[2021-03-03T18:40:10.721Z]	<dmitriz>	... ok, on to final topic,
[2021-03-03T18:40:23.166Z]	<dmitriz>	... very important to understand how linked data relates to verifiability
[2021-03-03T18:40:30.928Z]	<dmitriz>	... so, Manu is joining us to talk about LD Proofs
[2021-03-03T18:40:37.750Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-credentials/2021Feb/att-0134/2021-Linked-Data-Security.pdf
[2021-03-03T18:40:45.452Z]	<dmitriz>	manu: I'll paste the slides into the chat channel
[2021-03-03T18:40:55.989Z]	<dmitriz>	manu: (Linked Data Security slide deck)
[2021-03-03T18:41:06.747Z]	<dmitriz>	... at a high level, there's a set of work happening in the CCG around Linked Data Security
[2021-03-03T18:41:22.345Z]	<dmitriz>	... so, we use Linked Data for a lot of things in the group. primarily, VCs are based on LD
[2021-03-03T18:41:39.524Z]	<dmitriz>	... when you express information, you want to protect it (by digitally signing it, etc)
[2021-03-03T18:42:07.091Z]	<dmitriz>	... so that's what Linked Data Security work is concerned with
[2021-03-03T18:42:14.741Z]	<dmitriz>	... ok, so, why are we talking about this now?
[2021-03-03T18:42:34.584Z]	<dmitriz>	... we sent out this Linked Data Security Roadmap out to the mailing list a few days ago. this slide just shows the related W3C Standards
[2021-03-03T18:42:45.497Z]	<dmitriz>	... some of these, we've been working on for close to a decade
[2021-03-03T18:42:47.043Z]	<dmitriz>	... so most of this stuff is not new
[2021-03-03T18:42:54.981Z]	<dmitriz>	... started with JSON-LD, with Canonicalization,
[2021-03-03T18:42:58.560Z]	<dmitriz>	... and continued on from there.
[2021-03-03T18:43:20.510Z]	<dmitriz>	... fundamentally, the VC specs largely depend on LD Signatures. you can use JWTs to sign VCs as well, but many deployments use LD Security signatures
[2021-03-03T18:43:42.574Z]	<dmitriz>	... as you can see from the roadmap, this is where we are today, and this is a whoooole bunch of work that is starting up that needs to be done in the coming months
[2021-03-03T18:43:50.546Z]	<dmitriz>	... here's a Layer Cake (tm) stack
[2021-03-03T18:44:06.283Z]	<dmitriz>	... foundation is - Canonicalization.
[2021-03-03T18:44:14.975Z]	<dmitriz>	... (rdf dataset canonicalization)
[2021-03-03T18:44:24.465Z]	<dmitriz>	... on top of that, Linked Data Proofs, and Linked Data Signatures
[2021-03-03T18:44:33.253Z]	<dmitriz>	... and on top of that, the individual cryptographic suites we're using
[2021-03-03T18:44:45.564Z]	<dmitriz>	... so, really, what we're trying to do, is just protect the information we're publishing.
[2021-03-03T18:44:48.571Z]	<dmitriz>	... make it tamper-resistant
[2021-03-03T18:45:07.328Z]	<dmitriz>	... that's what the proofs are for
[2021-03-03T18:45:25.915Z]	<dmitriz>	... so, we have a structured document with some information, and then a protection for that information
[2021-03-03T18:45:32.364Z]	<dmitriz>	... so lets look at RDF Dataset Canonicalization
[2021-03-03T18:45:45.463Z]	<dmitriz>	... it transforms an input to a /deterministic/ output
[2021-03-03T18:45:53.814Z]	<dmitriz>	... this is a fundamental cryptographic builidng block
[2021-03-03T18:46:09.930Z]	<dmitriz>	... why did it take so long? it's had to go through 2 mathematical formal proofs, with peer review
[2021-03-03T18:46:16.451Z]	<dmitriz>	... so, that took a while to get em peer reviewd & published
[2021-03-03T18:46:36.911Z]	<dmitriz>	... so basically, it's a fancy way of deterministically canonicalizing a structured document / graph.
[2021-03-03T18:47:08.269Z]	<dmitriz>	... canonicalization is crucial. because even with simple json, if you naively sign it on the string contents, even whitespace changes the signature
[2021-03-03T18:47:25.125Z]	<dmitriz>	... so canonicalization allows the input to be standardized, so that the signatures (and verifications) work on the same value
[2021-03-03T18:47:49.209Z]	<dmitriz>	... so for example, this is not done in the JOSE environment (no canonicalization)
[2021-03-03T18:47:54.179Z]	<dmitriz>	... so this just pre-formats the data for signing.
[2021-03-03T18:48:04.959Z]	<dmitriz>	... Next up we have Linked Data Proofs
[2021-03-03T18:48:33.512Z]	<dmitriz>	... these express various protective measures such as - digital signatures (just one mechanism), proof of work, proof of existence, of elapsed time, etc
[2021-03-03T18:48:45.626Z]	<dmitriz>	... digital signatures is what most people are used to
[2021-03-03T18:48:51.503Z]	<dmitriz>	... and all these methods have different tradeoffs/characteristics
[2021-03-03T18:48:59.469Z]	<dmitriz>	... so LD Proofs unify all these methods
[2021-03-03T18:49:30.586Z]	<dmitriz>	... think of it as a physical safe for paperwork, but you can surround it with a moat filled with laser sharks. so, multiple ways to protect things,
[2021-03-03T18:49:36.152Z]	<dmitriz>	... and using em together sometimes helps.
[2021-03-03T18:49:44.297Z]	<rhiaro>	+1 laser sharks
[2021-03-03T18:50:02.306Z]	<dmitriz>	... here's an example Proof of Work
[2021-03-03T18:50:09.887Z]	<dmitriz>	... sort of a Bitcoin-y way of protecting things
[2021-03-03T18:50:17.504Z]	<tayken>	Sharks w/ lasers do work in certain cases :)
[2021-03-03T18:50:26.530Z]	<dmitriz>	... it's great, generates a ton of heat, burns calories, etc.
[2021-03-03T18:50:45.818Z]	<dmitriz>	... so Proofs are the fundamental building block. so let's zoom in on LD Signatures
[2021-03-03T18:50:54.960Z]	<dmitriz>	... they're a type of proof, we use it to express digital signatures
[2021-03-03T18:51:00.427Z]	<dmitriz>	... here's an example.
[2021-03-03T18:51:21.900Z]	<dmitriz>	... it's got all the properties you'd expect - type, metadata, algorithm, etc
[2021-03-03T18:51:30.648Z]	<dmitriz>	... let's continue up the stack
[2021-03-03T18:51:44.763Z]	<dmitriz>	... when you get to the individual crypto suites -- these are basically recommended ways of doing something
[2021-03-03T18:51:48.886Z]	<dmitriz>	... you can think of them as recipes.
[2021-03-03T18:52:03.551Z]	<dmitriz>	... there are many different recipes you can use to create your proofs.
[2021-03-03T18:52:26.825Z]	<dmitriz>	... crypto suites typically bundle / recommend several things that work together. a signing algorithm, a hashing algorithm, a canonicalization alg.
[2021-03-03T18:52:34.341Z]	<dmitriz>	... so, it's a recommended recipe for protecting data.
[2021-03-03T18:52:48.142Z]	<dmitriz>	... for example - Ed25519VerificationKey2020 crypto suite
[2021-03-03T18:53:04.002Z]	<dmitriz>	... in the suite, it talks about the public key format, what a signature looks like, what hash alg to use, etc.
[2021-03-03T18:53:12.162Z]	<dmitriz>	... so that's fundamentally it. this is what we mean by Linked Data Security
[2021-03-03T18:53:12.758Z]	<cel>	q+ why is Equihash not on LDS
[2021-03-03T18:53:22.125Z]	<dmitriz>	... it's this layer cake / this set of specifications
[2021-03-03T18:53:31.751Z]	<dmitriz>	... so where do we go from here?
[2021-03-03T18:53:52.380Z]	<dmitriz>	... this stuff has been incubating for a decade now. we have math proofs in place, we have all this stuff lined up, including VCs as a usecase
[2021-03-03T18:54:04.504Z]	<dmitriz>	... the next step is proposing an official W3C Working Group
[2021-03-03T18:54:19.989Z]	<dmitriz>	... in the next 6 months, there's going to be a charter proposed to W3C membership, for formation of a working group
[2021-03-03T18:54:24.894Z]	<dmitriz>	... so that's it!
[2021-03-03T18:54:29.708Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	q?
[2021-03-03T18:54:34.969Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	ack cel
[2021-03-03T18:54:47.907Z]	<dmitriz>	cel: why is Equihash not on top of linked data signatures diagram?
[2021-03-03T18:54:59.007Z]	<dmitriz>	manu: great question. Equihash is a /type/ of proof. it's not actually a signature
[2021-03-03T18:55:04.159Z]	<dmitriz>	... it's basically a Proof of Work
[2021-03-03T18:55:08.844Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	q+
[2021-03-03T18:55:11.996Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	ack W
[2021-03-03T18:55:13.682Z]	<dmitriz>	so it's an example of something that sits on top of LD Proofs, but not LD Sigs
[2021-03-03T18:55:22.595Z]	<mprorock>	q+ around best practices for stacking proofs
[2021-03-03T18:55:25.716Z]	<dmitriz>	wayne: I've been going through a lot of these specs of curves & algs,
[2021-03-03T18:55:41.862Z]	<dmitriz>	... I was wondering - is there a canonicalization of actual cryptographic functions?
[2021-03-03T18:55:50.263Z]	<dmitriz>	manu: not sure I understand the question
[2021-03-03T18:56:05.178Z]	<dmitriz>	wayne: does it come with standard steps / algorithms?
[2021-03-03T18:56:06.489Z]	<dmitriz>	manu: yes
[2021-03-03T18:56:27.210Z]	<dmitriz>	manu: one caveat - the specs are a bit old and out of date now (need to catch up to implementations / deployments)
[2021-03-03T18:56:45.807Z]	<dmitriz>	... but they all have boilerplate step-by-step language
[2021-03-03T18:57:04.326Z]	<dmitriz>	wayne: what about like pseudocode, in CS terms?
[2021-03-03T18:57:13.849Z]	<dmitriz>	manu: right, so, those generalized algs are in the specs itself
[2021-03-03T18:57:24.572Z]	<dmitriz>	... they of course need updating - PRs welcome :)
[2021-03-03T18:57:29.561Z]	<dmitriz>	wayne: other questions?
[2021-03-03T18:57:29.952Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	q?
[2021-03-03T18:57:32.426Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	ack mprorock
[2021-03-03T18:57:44.211Z]	<dmitriz>	mprorock: one of the things we're dealing with a lot of combinations of various proofs
[2021-03-03T18:57:52.250Z]	<dmitriz>	... for example, genetic sampling use case
[2021-03-03T18:58:07.303Z]	<dmitriz>	... is there a good method / starting place to read about how to combine digital sigs and other proofs?
[2021-03-03T18:58:14.164Z]	<dmitriz>	... is a VC the best way to account for that?
[2021-03-03T18:58:21.975Z]	<dmitriz>	manu: yeah, the easiest thing is to reach for a VC
[2021-03-03T18:58:32.111Z]	<dmitriz>	... the thing about LD Proofs is, you can attach them to any kind of document
[2021-03-03T18:58:38.702Z]	<dmitriz>	... and VCs are just one specific form
[2021-03-03T18:58:52.324Z]	<dmitriz>	... for your use cases, I would specifically recommend a VC.
[2021-03-03T18:58:59.305Z]	<dmitriz>	... cause you have a chain-of-custody issues, and so on
[2021-03-03T18:59:14.606Z]	<dmitriz>	... the other thing that's interesting with LD Sigs is -- you can /refer/ to other VCs, bundle them together
[2021-03-03T18:59:20.874Z]	<dmitriz>	... unfortunately we're at time
[2021-03-03T18:59:32.388Z]	<dmitriz>	mprorock: that would be a great topic for future meetings!
[2021-03-03T18:59:35.921Z]	<heathervescent>	q+
[2021-03-03T18:59:39.821Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	ack heather
[2021-03-03T18:59:53.361Z]	<dmitriz>	heathervescent: shout-out for next week, we're having two meet and greets between the Solid Project and the CCG
[2021-03-03T19:00:21.173Z]	<dmitriz>	... CCG is presenting to Solid a week from today at 7am Pacific (10am Eastern) (regular solid call time), and Solid is presenting to the CCG at this time next week
[2021-03-03T19:00:35.485Z]	<dmitriz>	... during our usual call, and hopefully Tim Berners-Lee is joining for a note
[2021-03-03T19:00:48.830Z]	<dmitriz>	wayne: hope to see all of you there!
[2021-03-03T19:01:51.777Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	kicking everyone to let cbot shutdown
[2021-03-03T19:01:57.695Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	(please don't take it personally)
